positioning continues to chase higher.
That has been the key driver of the
market rally and the reason why equities
have been able to defy all odds.
>> The momentum is coming from different
directions. Is it enough to kind of turn
the tide where the whole economy
benefits? I think the jury's out on
that.
>> One of the main risks that we saw were
high valuations in a very concentrated
market. We still have those same exact
risks.
>> We think it's broadening this year.
Equities are a great asset to capture
that expansion.
>> The onus now is on the earnings and
growth story.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, playing games with
Chairman Pal.
>> He's a terrible He's a terrible Fed
chair. I talked about the concept of
firing. I said, "What do you think?"
Almost every one of them said, "I
should." We're not planning on doing
anything. We're very concerned. It's
highly unlikely unless he has to leave
for fraud. He's a knucklehead.
>> President Trump stopping just short of
attempting to fire Fed chair Jay Powell
as the White House is preparing to slap
10 or 15% tariffs on more than 150
countries. One senior central bank
official is doubling down on restrictive
monetary policy. The tension continues
to build. The tension is building,
Jonathan, between the White House and
this Federal Reserve. And at the same
time, you have the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York president coming out and
saying, quote, "Maintaining this
modestly restrictive stance of monetary
policy is entirely appropriate, which
goes to the heart of really the
president's problem. Even if he were to
be able to get rid of and have his wish
to get rid of Jay Powell, it's a
deliberative body and he might not get
the outcome he's looking for."
>> So many reports yesterday was wild.
Reports he was about to fire him.
reports. He had a draft letter ready to
go. We got a stress test for this
market. And I have to say, the market
moves directionally. I get it. Stocks
down, yields up, dollar weaker. It was
all pretty tame.
>> It wasn't. It wasn't Armageddon. Why?
Because the market probably doesn't
believe that he was ready to do it just
yet. Also, the market might be thinking
about what's the legal cause for this.
And the Supreme Court has made it clear
that the Fed is an entirely independent
private entity. So, the market right now
is not really believing these threats.
But what Trump is doing is potentially
eroding the public trust in Jay Powell.
>> Later on this morning, 8:30 Eastern
time, another read on this economy,
retail sales, jobless claims, and write
this one down, too. 6:30 p.m. on the
economic outlook. Look out for Governor
Waller. Will Governor Waller start to
lean even harder into this lower rate
story?
>> Cuz he's one of those individuals that
the name is being floated potentially
that could ascend to be Fed Chair. And
to be honest, if you're looking at what
the president is trying to do in terms
of where he wants to see interest rates,
it would be analytically, strategically
smarter for the administration to
elevate someone that is already at the
Fed. So that extra seat with Jay Powell
and then um Krueger, they can put two
individuals there that potentially have
more of their world view.
>> This is a volatile news cycle. Look to
corporate America for some stability. We
heard from United Airlines. Scott Kirby
said this. The world is less uncertain
today than it was during the first 6
months. Some confidence coming from the
airline industry. Alisa is going to
catch up with Scott Kirby later on this
morning.
>> This is really an echo what we heard
from Delta. They feel like the worst is
behind them. There is a path they think
of of certainty and also Scott Kirby
saying he's confident in a strong finish
to 2025. The world is less uncertain
today than it was the first 6 months. I
covering policy in Washington DC.
Jonathan though still feel like things
are uncertain. There's still a lot of
tees that need to be crossed and eyes to
be dots.
>> Futures right now on the S&P 500
positive by close to a tenth of 1%.
Coming up this hour, Brian Levit of
Invesco as the president stops just
short of firing the Fed chair. Tossen
Sllock of Apollo as the White House eyes
tariff letters for 150 countries and Dan
Striven of Goldman Sachs on why crude
prices may rise in the second half. We
begin this hour with our top story.
President Donald Trump stopping just
short of firing Fed chair Jake Pal.
Bloomberg's Mike Shepard joins us now
from Washington for more. Shep, that was
a wild 24 hours. Just how close are we
to firing the Fed share?
Well, uh, Donald Trump tried to make it
seem like we were not as close as the
markets had feared earlier yesterday as
the reports began to emerge that, uh, he
had floated this letter to congressional
Republicans and we had even heard from a
White House official who indicated that
the pre president was actually preparing
to move in that direction soon. Trump
attempted to table that idea and yet at
the same time he didn't rule it out
entirely as Amory herself heard in the
Oval Office yesterday. The president
expressed his frustration with Powell
over the what he sees as the Fed's slow
pace in lowering interest rates. He
cited the cuts made by the European
Central Bank. He also pointed to what he
sees as lowering inflation figures. And
he also cited the potential cost savings
on interest paid by the federal
government on its borrowing. And
remember, that's a debt pile that's
growing thanks to the president's tax
and spending plan. Now, look, the
president's pressure on uh Powell right
now stands in contrast to the lavish
praise that he heaped on him when he
first appointed him as Fed chair back in
2017. But he does have the support of a
number of congressional Republicans and
that includes the House Ways and Means
Committee chairman Jason Smith uh who
Kelly Lines and I heard yesterday on
Balance of Power tell us that he sees
it's uh perhaps Powell's time to resign
and it's something that uh the Fed chair
should seriously consider doing well
ahead of his term ending in May 2026.
The pressure keeps building. We'll catch
up with you in the next hour as we
continue to track this story. The
president saying to you yesterday he was
surprised he got reappointed to a second
term. I went back over the vote. 80
senators voted to reappoint chairman Pal
to a second term.
>> Which is why I think we also need to
start thinking about what this hearing
could like for the next Fed chair if it
is someone that senators or the market
doesn't deem as credible. How
contentious potentially could that
hearing be? It was smooth sailing for J.
Pal. should know too when he was first
appointed it was under President Trump
because yesterday in the room President
Trump said who appointed this guy and
then he realized that might have been
me. So who reappointed this guy? Oh that
was President Joe Biden.
>> Here's the view on Wall Street so far
this morning. Brian Levit of Invesco
writing the following independence of
the Federal Reserve is critical. While
lowering rates in response to a
weakening dollar market is a labor
market rather is a legitimate policy
response. Doing so to plate the
executive branch is far more troubling.
Brian joins us now for more. Brian, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> It's the easiest job in government
apparently. How easy is the next Fed
decision?
>> Well, I think the Federal Reserve is
going to continue to focus on this dual
mandate. I mean, for me to write that in
Fed independence is critical, such a
bold statement that I put out there
yesterday, right? So, it is critical.
Um, the irony in all this, Jonathan, is
that the Fed would probably be lowering
rates had it not been for the policies
around trade tariffs. Um, so the Federal
Reserve is in a wait andsee mode. labor
market showing a little bit signs of
weakness but but still relatively sound
inflation expectations pretty stable. So
from their perspective no reason to cut
here uh until we see what the tariffs
mean. But the irony again is they
probably would have been easing had it
not been for the tariffs.
>> The market did get a stress test
yesterday.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think if you didn't know, you
wouldn't have noticed. No,
>> it was pretty tame stuff yesterday
afternoon. What did you make of it?
>> Yeah, I was getting texts from friends
saying gold prices are going nuts. the
dollars and I I pulled up the Bloomberg
terminal. No, it's not. You know, it was
I think you're right. You said it
absolutely right when we came into the
show was that the moves, the direction
of the moves was appropriate, but the
magnitude was not significant. And I
think a lot of it to Tamarie's point is
that the market just didn't fully
believe that it was going to happen.
>> Is the market though more primed now if
it were to happen?
>> I think so. I mean it you're not going
to get a great outcome in markets if we
fire the the Fed chair right now.
There's you talk about how it has to go
through the courts or other Fed
governors could be the uh you know could
stand up to any pressure to lower
interest rates. But if the market gets a
whiff that we're losing Fed independence
then yeah it's rates up and we're in an
environment right now where valuations
are a bit elevated to be grappling with
with rates up. So that's not my base
case. I think that ultimately um we will
move through this without firing the Fed
chair. Um but there is that risk.
>> But the markets now live in purgatory,
do they not? Because this genie is out
of the box.
>> Well, we've been in purgatory on a
handful of things right now. So, I'm not
sure that the the market is going to be
overly focused on this. We're we're in a
little bit of a purgatory on negotiated
trade deals as well. And what we saw in
2019 was the market could continue to go
up even if we did not get the negotiated
trade deals. So yeah, I think the the
president is going to use this topic as
a an ability to try and jawbone the Fed
share perhaps uh put the onus on the Fed
share if the economy rolls over. But I
don't expect the Fed chair to be fired.
>> The market gets the vote first. We've
talked about this a million times and
sometimes who you appoint doesn't even
make it to the Senate. If you go back to
the president's first term, who
remembers Steven Moore? Economist Steven
Moore nominated to be the governor at a
Federal Reserve didn't happen. And that
was even with a Republican majority in
the Senate. So you can get that kind of
constraint both from the market one side
and then on the other side from
Republican senators.
>> Basically the president could right
between now and the end of the year be
putting out a number of trial balloons.
One being undermine the credibility of
the Fed or potentially saying do I have
potentially the leeway to fire this
individual? And then maybe we're going
to see a bunch of names pop up and the
market may get a vote and then the
president could decide whether or not
he's going to want to go through with
that specific person.
>> Brian, markets are okay. Earnings seem
to be pretty decent. We heard from the
banks earlier on this week, hearing from
others as well. The airlines talking
about a good story in the second half of
25. Do we need those Fed rate cuts?
>> No, probably not right now. I mean, the
airlines are happy. The the one big
beautiful bill certainly helps them out.
The the banks are uh are in a promising
deregulatory environment. the volatility
in markets is is certainly helpful. So,
you're right. All all of that is all
that is fine. I mean, you look at the
Fed funds rate, um Fed funds rate should
not be sitting where the 10-year rate
is, right? We shouldn't be sitting here
with a flat yield curve. So, the Federal
Reserve is probably a bit tight here and
would like to lower rates to a more
neutral level, but the reality is we're
waiting to see how prominent the uh the
inflation is from tariffs. Now, I don't
view tariffs to me as a price shock,
right? That's not broad-based inflation,
but the Federal Reserve is still going
to be in wait and see mode.
>> You see that price shock in the data,
though. It's starting to come through.
>> Starting to come through. Yeah.
>> Services versus goods. And this is what
I think is interesting right now. Goods
prices are basically telling the Fed to
wait. Services prices are arguably
telling the Fed to cut.
>> Right.
>> Where do you think they put the greater
weight, place the greater emphasis in
the months to come?
>> Well, it all depends on where inflation
expectations are. So, if inflation
expectations can stay relatively stable,
and I mean within the bond market, not
these surveys that we're doing of
consumers in the bond market, if they
can stay stable and you start to see
cracks in the labor market, the Federal
Reserve will ease. And and that's maybe
one of our saving graces here. You know,
I I keep thinking I was born in the 70s,
but I don't want to relive the 70s. So,
you know, I I don't have any polyester
leisure suits to go put on. So I
certainly don't want to deal with
concerns about the independence of the
US central bank. But the big difference
back then was the market believed that
we should be raising rates and the
Arthur Burns Fed did not want to follow
through with that. The saving grace or
perhaps a little bit of a silver lining
here is the market is expecting lower
rates. Now we don't want that to come
because the president is pressuring it
but but nonetheless the market is
expecting lower rates. That might be
where we land by the time we get to
September, which is only a few months
away. Brian, appreciate it.
>> My pleasure.
>> Thank you, sir. Brian Le there of
Invesco. The latest from the New York
Fed President, John Williams. I expect
those effects from tariffs to increase
in the coming months, maintaining this
modestly restrictive stance of monetary
policy is entirely appropriate. They're
going to keep poking the bear
>> and they basically keep punting the ball
back to the White House saying for us to
move lower in rates, we're going to need
you to set the tariff policies. And
right now, what do we have? We only have
three basically deals that are done. The
president is in active negotiations with
the US biggest trading partners, and
he's saying that he's going to set a
base rate of 10 to 15% for the 150 other
partners. Until the Fed has those rates,
how do they start to model out what this
one-time price shock could actually look
like?
>> Equity futures this morning just about
positive. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Joining us now, here's
Lizzie Burton. Hey, Lizzie.
>> Hey, John. President Trump said he's not
planning to fire Fed check JP Pal. He
made the comments to reporters in the
Oval Office following reports that he
had discussed the idea with a group of
Republican lawmakers. The president
added, "I don't rule out anything, but I
think it's highly unlikely unless he has
to leave for fraud." Referring to his
recent criticism of the Fed's $2.5
billion renovation plan. Elsewhere,
President Trump says he'll send letters
to more than 150 countries notifying
them that their tariff rates could be
10% or 15%. He said the new levies will
kick in on August the 1st if the
countries can't negotiate better terms
with the US. The president said that the
trading partners that would receive the
letters were not big countries and don't
do much business with the US. And AI
spending momentum seems to be holding up
as TSMC raised its 2025 revenue growth
outlook. It raised its projection after
the chipmaker reported a better thanex
expected net income, keeping a streak of
beating estimates every quarter since
2021. TSMC said that it will stick with
plans to spend up to $42 billion to
upgrade and expand capacity this year.
And that should be my brief. John,
>> Lizzy, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Lizzie in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, Trump versus Pal.
>> You drafted a letter?
>> I drafted a letter.
>> So, you didn't show a letter to
Republican lawmakers last night?
>> No. I talked about the concept of
firing. I said, "What do you think?"
Almost every one of them said I should.
>> Up next on the program, Ed Mills of
Raymond James live from New York City.
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equity futures on the S&P 500 just about
positive by 0.05%
on the NASDAQ up by a tenth of 1%. Later
on this morning, 8:30 Eastern time.
Jobless claims and US retail sales under
surveillance this morning. Trump versus
Pal.
>> There's lots of reports coming into uh
this meeting that you planned on firing
Bair Jay Powell.
>> Those are reports, but they're not true.
>> Have you drafted a letter?
>> I have drafted a letter.
>> So, you didn't show a letter to
Republican lawmakers last night? No, I
talked about the concept of firing.
Almost every one of them said I should.
>> It's the latest this morning. President
Donald Trump calling it highly unlikely
he would fire Fed Chair Jay Powell after
reportedly raising the idea in a meeting
with congressional Republicans. The
president adding he doesn't rule out
anything. Ed Mills of Raymond James
joins us now for more. Ed, welcome to
the program, sir. I've been asking this
question just how seriously we should be
taking these threats.
Yeah, I think you need to take him
seriously because it is being discussed
in meetings with lawmakers. Um, I don't
think that Trump is likely to fire
Powell. What I think this is about is a
pressure campaign uh either to get him
to step aside, maybe get another
governor um to step down. We've uh been
watching whether or not Michael Bar, who
is no longer vice chair for supervision,
uh does he end his term early? Uh we saw
that when uh Powell was getting
renominated where the former vice chair
of supervision Randy Quarl his term
hadn't expired as a governor but he
stepped down to give Biden another slot.
And then I'd also look to see whether or
not this is about resetting market
expectations to the extent that Jay
Powell's power uh is waning. Uh do we
have to overindex some of the statements
of the potential replacements for Jay
Powell? And is this more about
reshifting market expectations um versus
whether or not Donald Trump is going to
fire Powell?
>> If it's about changing potentially some
of the successors, adding more names,
who are you thinking of, Ed?
>> Yeah, I think the for me it is four
individuals. It's the Kevin's the Kevin
Hassert and Kevin Worsh. Um I put
Christopher Waller in that uh camp as
well on the board as well as Scott
Bessett. And what I've always thought is
that Donald Trump loves people competing
for his attention. He loves people
competing for the job. Uh to the extent
that he has one or two slots open on the
board, having an opportunity to get
those individuals onto the board and see
how that they would perform. And I do
think that if we're in a situation where
we had two individuals join the board
before Powell's term is up, the Trump
nominees would have a majority because
he had two from his first term as well.
And so those are going to be those
market shifts that occur that the market
is going to be paying attention to.
Amory,
>> do you think this pressure campaign is
going to work not just on JPAL but some
of the other individuals you're
mentioning on the board?
>> You know, my view is that this pressure
campaign could backfire. Um when I um
had conversation with my contacts here
in DC, what they tell me is because of
this pressure campaign, the Fed is going
to be more insistent on being quote
unquote data dependent. And then you
have another decision of President Trump
which is to punt the implications of
this trade war uh and what the tariff
rates are until at least August 1st. And
so if the Fed is being data dependent,
it's going to take until probably
September, October or later uh for them
to get the data about the impact of
these tariffs Emory. And so is the July
rate cut off the table? Is the September
rate cut off the table? Do we have to go
all the way to December? And so if
President Trump had set tariff rates
earlier and just left the Fed alone, I
think there would actually be a higher
probability of a rate cut sooner rather
than later. Um, this here might actually
have a big unintended consequence of the
Fed waiting much longer than what Trump
actually wants.
>> A lot of people on Wall Street Ed, they
agree with you. Neil Dutert of Renmack
might be one. And Marie Neil said this
yesterday. The upshot of all of this is
that it makes Trump's first pick more
challenging to get through. going on to
say that might ultimately force him to
go with Governor Waller.
>> Exactly. Because also Governor Waller is
going to help them potentially add more
individuals to the board. And you've
said it a million times, Jonathan, the
market is going to have a vote and then
you're going to have to have a hearing
and who can make sure they can get
through Congress right now given all the
drama surrounding this pick.
>> Ed, Secretary Besson said the process
has started. The formal process has
begun. Ed, what's your read on how long
this process is going to take and how
close we are to a final decision?
>> Yeah, I think it's going to be do we get
a governor pick first and then we would
see the opportunity to have one of the
individuals I discuss getting on the
board sooner rather than later. Um, but
I don't think there's going to be a kind
of formal pick, the revelation of who
this is, uh, much closer to the
expiration of Powell's term. Um, maybe
I'm wrong in that fact that, you know,
Trump doesn't fire Powell, but he
instills that quote unquote shadow Fed
cheer. I don't think the market likes
that, John. And I don't think that, you
know, the intended unintended
consequence of lower rates would be the
result of those type of uh moves.
>> If the president was to go with his
Treasury Secretary, Scott Besson, who
pretty much made it clear to me, John
and Lisa, that he was part of the
decision-making process. It didn't sound
like he was still really in the process
to be the next Fed chair. But if he were
to go with him, what kind of other
obstacles does that create for this
administration to then fill his role?
>> Yeah. So I think in DC, anytime someone
is in charge of a process, you always
look to see whether or not they end up
with the job. It's the kind of Dick
Cheney effect is what we always discuss
that as. So I don't dismiss that at all.
Um people have asked that question
because since uh April 2nd in the market
reaction to the tariff uh nominee, you
know, kind of reactions there, uh people
want Scott Bessant leading those
negotiations. So if he does leave and go
to Fed chair, um people are going to ask
very quickly who replaces them. Mark
Rowan always comes up in conversations
because he was on the short list, but
the market desperately would want
someone that they were comfortable with
in the Treasury Secretary role. Uh so it
is a a bit of a uh mixed bag if if
Bessant does move over to the Fed
because of how important he has been to
this administration in his role as
Treasury Secretary.
>> When it comes to the tariff rates Ed as
well, the president yesterday was
talking about 10 to 15% for say 150
countries. How close is he though to
actually end up striking the deals with
the US's biggest trading partners? I
>> I think it's actually pretty decently on
track to at least get those Emory. And I
was actually thinking about a
conversation you and I had kind of back
in April where uh the original goal or
what Scott Bessant thought was going to
be announced in the uh Rose Garden was
10% across the board, 20% for bad actors
uh or those with our biggest trade
deficits. And as we are getting closer
to this new August 1st deadline um where
you see kind of the trading partners who
have the biggest trading deficits,
they're settling in around 20%. uh those
who you know kind of UK is the only real
example is settling around 10%. Uh the
world that really doesn't do quote
unquote a lot of business with us is
settling around 10%. And then the you
know middle ground is that 15%. So you
know we've spent a lot of time
roundtpping to exactly what was expected
to be announced at that Rose Garden
ceremony on April 2nd. Uh but the roller
coaster ride has been quite wild.
>> Ed Mills. It certainly has. Thank you
sir. Ed Mills there of Raymond James. I
think we all remember the afternoon of
April 2nd initially when we thought it
was going to be a baseline 10% tariff.
This market actually rallied.
>> Yeah, it rallied uh basically because
everyone thought this is the best of the
worst case scenario. And then once the
president brought out that big chart,
which by the way in the White House
yesterday, I was peeking in someone's
office and I saw that chart on display.
I said, "Oh, the market doesn't like
that chart." Then that's when we saw the
market look at these rates, how skyhigh
they were for some of these countries
like the European Union, like
Switzerland, like Japan, and they said,
"Oh, this is way too big of rates than
the market can digest." And then what
did the president do? He said the bond
market got yippy with a taco trade, the
Trump put, whatever you want to call it.
And then he unwound policy.
>> He unwound. The Fed's still waiting and
they're not cutting anytime soon based
on recent communication. So where did
things stand? The president saying, "I
hope you resign." and the chairman
saying, "I'm going to serve out my full
term." And that tension is going to keep
on building until this Federal Reserve
starts cutting.
>> And it feels like we're living in
purgatory both as journalists and also
in the markets because every single day
that ends in Y. So that's every single
day. The president is going to jawbone
J. Powell. First it was about he's not
cutting interest rates and inflation is
coming down. Now it's about what is
going on at the Fed when it comes to
renovations. It seems like the
administration is trying to at minimum
make sure that they are putting this
credibility test to the public when it
comes to the Fed chair.
>> Up next on the program, the conversation
continues. We'll catch up with Torson
Sllock of Apollo on stackflationary
fears in the US economy. Plus, Yhara
Arnard with your morning movers with a
different kind of soda story. PepsiCo
numbers dropping just moments ago. Their
stock is higher by 2.25%. Live from New
York City, the equity market's doing
okay. were positive just about just
about positive by 0.03%.
From New York, you're watching Bloomberg
TV
[Music]
in two hours time. Some economic data
for you. retail sales and jobless claims
at the moment going into that. Futures
just about positive by not even a tenth
of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100
higher by 0.15
with 3 hours until the cash open. Let's
get you some morning movers. We can do
that with Yhara Arnand. Hey yara.
>> Good morning John. We start with the
latest US corporate to report and that
is PepsiCo shares are up 2% after the
company reported better than expected
sales driven by international growth. It
also maintained its fullear outlook and
that's because one of the strategies
that I had mentioned when it last
reported is working which is to provide
more pricing options because it had been
losing budget conscious shoppers due to
inflation. We turn to another US
corporate that just reported and that is
United Airlines but it is going the
other way down nearly 2.8%
despite the company joining Delta
Airlines in offering an optimistic view
in the year ahead. Even Scott Kirby said
that the world is a less uncertain
place, but a few things weighing on the
results. It did issue a single piece of
guidance now expecting to earn profits
of $9 to $111 a share this year, but
that was below the rosy target it set at
the beginning of the year. And it's
still grappling with the hangover after
all those disruptions over at its main
Newark hub, which will continue to be a
drag on Q3 results. And we end on this
stock. Archer Daniels Midland shares are
up shares are down 5.6%. The company
makes high fructose corn syrup and it is
falling because President Trump says
Coca-Cola is now planning to swap out
corn syrup and use cane sugar in its US
beverages. This of course ties into the
health secretary RFK Junior's Maha
movement and Trump's own obsession with
Diet Coke. Coca-Cola says that more
details are coming on Tuesday when it
reports. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
may be the most under reportported story
of this administration so far. The
progress they've made to make some of
these companies really U-turn on some
big issues.
>> So yesterday was about Coca-Cola, but
also a few days ago it was about what's
going on in ice cream. 40 ice cream
companies. 90% of the producers of ice
cream are saying we're going to get rid
of the dyes that we put in some of our
ice cream and they're going to work on
that for the next few years. And that's
been a huge push of this administration.
>> Might actually help sales of Coca-Cola
as well.
>> Yeah, probably tasting nicer. So we'll
see. On a radar this morning, President
Donald Trump saying he has no plans to
fire Fed chair Jay Pal after reportedly
running the idea by a group of
Republican lawmakers. The president
saying it would be highly unlikely
unless Pal would have to leave his role
due to fraud.
>> So that interesting moment there due to
fraud. I think the administration is
trying to build this case. They couldn't
win when it comes to just going after
the Fed chair for not cutting interest
rates. They are really leaning heavily
into the renovations that are taking
place at the Fed. You did see Jerome
Powell calling the inspector general to
make sure all of this is above board,
trying to understand about the swelling
cost of this renovation. But you can see
they're needling at anything they can to
really try to get at J. Powell,
potentially even try to just put
pressure on him to resign himself. He is
not resigning. The Supreme Court talks
about the independence, the private
entity of the Fed. So right now, what
the president is dealing with is just
going to be constant bashing of the Fed.
yesterday came to this extreme with
reports that he was well willing to pull
the trigger, but was it just a trial
balloon?
>> There's some tension in Washington
between the Federal Reserve and the
White House. There's also some tension
in the data between goods prices and
services prices. And that tension is not
going to go away this summer, which
makes the September decision all the
more important. You get to September,
they're not cutting rates. If you think
things are firing now, it's going to get
even worse.
>> It's going to be much harder for them.
And really what the Fed is going to
continuously push back on, what we heard
from Williams yesterday is we are still
waiting for the final implications of
tariffs. And at this moment, we don't
have the final tariff rates from this
administration. We just have the fact
that they are talking about these deals
and he's planning to send more letters,
but we don't have the finalized
products.
>> Let's get to some of those letters. The
president preparing to send letters to
more than 150 countries announcing
tariff rates of 10 to 15%. and Trump
saying the tariff rate would be the same
for the group of countries which he
described as not that big and don't do
that much business with America.
>> I feel like we're back on the campaign
trail when all we heard from the
president and the reporting was a 10%
tariff wall around the United States and
potentially as high as 60% when it comes
to doing business with China. What you
have here is something a little bit in
the middle. 10 to 15% for all of these
countries but a handful of America's
biggest trading partners. Japan, India,
South Korea, Korea, the European Union,
Mexico, Canada. These are the countries
they're in active negotiations with. And
of course, China is going to be a
longerterm story.
>> That volatility continues, but corporate
America is doing okay. United Airlines
shares are a little bit lower after the
airline cut its earnings per share
forecast and narrowed its profit
outlook, but United expected a rebound
in travel demand for the second half.
The CEO, Scott Kirby, saying global
uncertainties have decreased. They've
got some clarity on the future that many
other people don't. We'll be catching up
with Kirby later on this morning. Lisa
sitting down with him at 8:45 Eastern
time.
>> Really looking forward to that
conversation cuz how do you go from a
U-turn of at one point issuing two
earning scenarios cuz you didn't know
where the economy was going to go
dictated a lot by the policy uncertainty
in Washington DC and pretty much saying
we turned to the corner and we're
expecting to have a really strong year.
We heard that from United. We also heard
that from Delta. This airline shaking
off the tariff story big time as the
president said he would send letters to
more than 150 countries notifying them
of their tariff rates. Torson Slock of
Apollo writing a trade war is a
stackflation shock. Torson Slock joins
us now for more. Torsson, good morning.
>> Morning. Morning.
>> Is firing the Fed chair a stackflation
shock?
>> Uh well, so a stackflation shock is by
definition that inflation will go up and
GDP growth will go down. But if you fire
the Fed, as we saw yesterday, the dollar
will likely go down and at the same time
long rates will be going up and the
dollar going down is certainly
inflationary. But rates going up is of
course holding back growth. So firing
the Fed chair will probably mainly mean
a decline in the dollar and an increase
in long rates.
>> Let's talk about the stag versus
deflation. Do you expect to see that for
very long?
>> Well, so so far there's a number of FMC
members when they talk about this that
they discuss what is the persistence of
the stacklation shock. In other words,
when tariffs start to be more visible in
the data and I absolutely believe the
data we just got this week, it is the
case that we're now seeing lift off in
inflation in goods because we are seeing
goods inflation which makes up 40% of
the CPI basket seeing on a number of
different categories, tools, toys,
apparel, furniture. We've seen a fairly
decent rise and if we begin to see that
lift off now over the next several
months, then the risk is of course that
this becomes more persistent. And Beth
Hammock from the Cleveland Fed has said
that in her district, companies that are
exposed to tariffs have been raising
prices. But even companies that are not
exposed to tariffs have for competitive
reasons also been raising prices because
hey, if others are doing it, we can also
do it. So the fear the Fed is that this
does become more persistent and more
sticky. So that's why it's so difficult
for the Fed to go out and declare
victory and say, "Oh, this is just
temporary." They need to wait to see the
peak and we are really only at the
takeoff stage. So we have not seen the
peak. The consensus expects that later
this year by probably November or
December. But the bottom line is we
before we can see that peak in sight, it
is not clear that the Fed will say that
now we're going to cut rates more
meaningfully.
>> How do we explain what's happening with
services prices?
>> Well, so of course when something has a
weight of 40% and we know very well that
that's now going up. Of course the issue
is well what about the 60%, is that also
going up? The 60% consists to a last
degree also of wages and what we know
from deportations of course at a run
rate of around a million people in 2025
that means that wage inflation will
likely begin to go up in the areas where
unauthorized immigrants are working for
example in agriculture, construction,
leash and hospitality. So the fear you
can have is that it's not only goods
inflation coming from tariffs, it's also
the upside risk to services inflation
coming from wages especially because of
deportations potentially beginning to
play a more significant role. Dorson, is
the consumer able to absorb this?
>> Well, on the retail sales data today,
it's quite interesting because the
low-end consumer has been in trouble for
quite some time because we've seen auto
loan delinquencies go up. We've seen
credit card delinquencies go up. That's
mainly because lower income households
generally have more debt. They generally
have lower FICO scores. And when you
have more debt and the Fed raised rates
in 2022, that means that low-inccome
households are having higher debt
interest payments. So therefore,
low-income households have been in
trouble for some time now. High- income
households have been in good shape
because stock markets are up, home
prices are up. If you own fixed income,
the cash flow you get from private
credit, public credit, that's been very
very strong. But the middle- inome
households are now facing the new shock
that student loan payments restarted
after the moratorium or the pause on
paying back your student loan ended here
in May. So that means that the rating
bureaus are now being told if I'm not
paying my student loan. And that means
that we are unfortunately for the
consumer outlook and therefore for
retail sales here at 8:30 seeing the
risk that it's not only low-inccome
consumers that are now facing headwinds
is also the middle- inome consumers and
there's about 11 million people who are
not paying their student loan on time at
the moment out of 45 million people who
have a student loan. So that means with
a 25% delinquency rates on student loans
this is at risk of implying that credit
scores are going to go down according to
the New York Fed liberty streak blog
post it could be as much as 75 points on
your FICO scale. So people who have a
credit score of 725 goes down to 650.
That means that middle- inome households
are at risk of seeing not an ability to
borrow to buy a car, a house, washer,
dryer, iPhone. So therefore, the risk to
consumption is that it's going to
broaden out the headwinds not only to
low end, but also to middle income. When
you look at tariffs as a headwind, if
the president is about to potentially
settle on 10 to 15% across the board for
150 countries while he's in active
negotiations with some of the biggest
trading partners, is that enough for the
Fed to then start to model out what that
could mean and cut rates? What's the
timeline between getting the final
tariff rates and the Fed being willing
to cut?
>> Yeah, that is really important because
the excuse my picture pick is coming
through the python here in terms of
tariffs and what it means. our company's
going to raise prices for consumers and
that's the way we pay for tariffs or our
company's going to take it in earnings.
So there are various simulations from
the Yale budget lab, the pen warden
budget model, the tax foundation which
tried to look at what are the
implications of different levels of the
effective average tariff rate and those
show indeed that it does take time. So
the fed will not have clarity on this
issue maybe not even this year which is
exactly why FMC members are so reluctant
to come up with answers. How do we even
quantify what the impact is? And the
final point in your world is of course
also what about the hearings for the
AIPA on July 31st that's now several
weeks away with that all deemed that
there is a risk that this could all turn
out to be not legal. What does that then
mean for the August one deadline? So in
the near term the Fed is certainly going
into the July meeting in my view
thinking we cannot just even signal that
there is any rate cuts coming because we
just don't know yet the persistence the
magnitude and therefore overall what are
the implications of tariffs at this
point. Can I just deal with that word
we? How many people make up that word we
and how many people put their hand up
and say, you know what, actually we
should cut and we should cut this month.
>> Yeah. Um, of course, both Chris Waller
and Nikki Bowman have been turning more
towards talking about cuts potentially
being something that should be likely.
But the answer is to your question at
least the vast majority of committee at
this point is certainly at least in the
reading if you look at the dot plot
weighing towards saying well there is
probably a good argument for waiting.
>> Median dot still projects implies two
cuts. Morgan Stanley no cuts. Bank of
America, no cuts for 2025. What's your
base case given what we know now? What's
your base case?
>> We have one cut in December, but I do
think that the market is way way too
eager to price in cuts. Again, the risks
are and not only we talk about tariffs
as upward pressure on inflation, we also
talk about immigration restrictions and
deportations as upward pressure on
inflation. But let's also not forget
that if you take Furpus, the Fed's model
of the US economy, and you ask the
question, what does the Fed itself think
is the implication of a 10% depreciation
in the trade weighted dollar? And the
answer out of purpose is that inflation
will go up over the next four quarters
by 0.3. So now we suddenly don't only
have the uncertainty about tariffs
putting upward pressure on inflation. We
also have immigration restrictions
putting upward pressure on inflation.
And then we also have that the
depreciating dollar for the last 6
months is also putting upward pressure
on inflation. So all that argues for
rates higher for longer and on top of
that in the long end we also have fiscal
issues putting upward pressure on
inflation. So the whole yield curve is
likely to stay elevated for a much more
extended period than what the market is
appreciating.
>> The Federal Reserve is projecting
transitory. It's just implied by the
forecasts. Core PCE for 25 3.1 26 2.4
then down to 2.1 and 27. That's the
glide path. Do you project transitory?
>> Well, that is also if I type ECFC go on
Bloomberg I see exactly that profile
where inflation will peak at 3.3 by Q4
of this year and then it will begin to
come down. But noteworthy is it or
including in the Fed forecast that we
will only by the end of next year have
inflation still at 2 and a half. That's
still way above the Fed's 2% target. So
you could begin to argue if you begin to
cut rates when inflation is 2.89 or if
we get basically a situation where
inflation turns out to more sticky, the
risk is of course that they will be
cutting prematurely. And that's what
literally every FOMC member worries
about. Namely, did we cut too quickly?
And are we therefore then creating more
boom in the economy, including with the
one big beautiful bill lifting GDP next
year? We could have a fairly strong
economy going into 2026. And with that
backdrop, it becomes very difficult to
argue that you should see a lot of Fed
cuts next year.
>> Do you think the 100 basis points of
cuts in the run-up to the election was
premature?
>> Well, of course, at this point, we had
no longer talk about our star as we have
done now for for a long long time. And
this was the strong strong argument at
the time that monetary policy was
restrictive. They even still in the
footnotes of FMC member speeches talks
about well monetary policy is still
today restrictive. But if you look at it
that way well if monetary policy is so
restrictive why is the economic data
then still doing so well. So that
suggests that maybe this whole
discussion has interestingly enough
completely faded into the backseat of
the car. We no longer talk about our
star and restrictive. Now we're so eager
instead to talk about the inflationary
impulse coming from in particular
tariffs but also the dollar going down.
So I think that the debate around why
are we at these levels of interest rates
and where should we be that debate seems
to be almost yesterday's debate. So
that's why I think a lot of the impulse
and the discussions on the FMC now is
all about what's coming ahead of us and
what we know is coming ahead of us is
exactly what the forecast from the Fed
is saying namely higher inflation. J Pal
said himself we expect a meaningful
increase in inflation over the coming
months. That's a very strong statement
from the Fed chair. So I think that we
should in market take that very
seriously when the Fed chair is staking
a lot of credibility on saying we expect
a meaningful increase in inflation over
the coming months.
>> Tston, it's good to see you as always.
Thank you sir. Toss there of Apollo. If
you are just joining us, welcome to the
program. Equity futures doing okay. No
drama here. Just about positive later on
this morning. I keep repeating this.
Some economic data for you. The main
event 8:30 Eastern time. US retail sales
and US jobless claims with an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross back over to Lizzie
Burton. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey John. Pepsi shares are rising in the
pre-market. The food and beverage
company reporting second quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates.
Pepsi also maintained its annual
outlook, highlighting strength from its
international business. And a record
share of American firms have paused
investments in China as trade ties
between the two countries worsened
earlier in the year. According to a
survey from the US China Business
Council, 27% of companies said that
they'd moved or plan to move some
operations out of China. Many companies
citing China's retaliatory tariffs
against the US as their top cost
concern. And shares of 7 and I tumbled
in Tokyo after Kushetard announced that
it's abandoning its 46 billion takeover
bid. The Canadian owner of Circle K
stores says the Japanese firm refused to
engage during an almost year-long
pursuit. 7 and I disputes that,
insisting that it did engage in sincere
talks and is disappointed that Crusetard
has walked away. And that should be my
brief. John
>> Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzy in the
next 30 minutes. Up next on the program,
the president's push for cheaper crude.
>> We're number one in the world in oil and
we're drilling and today it hit $64 a
barrel, which is great.
And that'll help stop wars. Actually,
you want to know the truth.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Dan Striven
of Goldman Sachs from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Just about squeezed out a day of gains
in yesterday's session on the S&P 500.
This morning struggling to add to it.
We're unchanged on the S&P on the NASDAQ
higher by not even a tenth of 1%. Under
surveillance this morning, the
president's push for cheaper crude.
>> You know, we have the most oil of any
country in the world. We're number one
in the world in oil and we're drilling
and today it hit $64 a barrel which is
great and that'll help stop wars.
Actually, you want to know the truth?
It's going to help stop wars and we hope
to get it down a little bit more. That's
one of the reasons that inflation's in
check.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Oil
looking to snap three days of losses
after a decline in US crude holdings.
Droven a Goldman Sachs rating. We're
nudging up our Brent second half of the
year forecast by five to66
and keep our overs supplied driven
forecast for crude heading into next
year. Dan joined us now for more. Doug,
good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Attention seems to be shifting switching
from say recession watch to supply
watch. You've been focused on that too.
What should we be focused on now?
>> Yeah, so you know oil prices have
recovered somewhat up 10% over the last
three months for two reasons on the
physical side. While inventories
globally have built very significantly,
stocks in the pricing centers in the
OECD especially in the US are still
quite low. And then on the financial
side to your point, uh market focus has
shifted away from downside to demand
from recession risk to now potentially
downside risk to supply whether it's
from uh you know Russia potentially uh
or or or Iran. Um we are laser focused
on checking where these significant
global inventory builds that we are
seeing the big surplus that is
materializing whether those bills are
going to show up in the pricing centers.
Our assumption is they will and that
will put downward pressure on on oil
prices but I think that is the biggest
question to watch right now.
>> Can we sit on US supply as well just for
a couple of beats for a few moments? US
supply coming out of GFC was something
like five to six million barrels a day
and then took off and has stabilized now
at about 13 million which is an amazing
figure 13 million over the last few
years. Have we seen the peak now for
crude production in America?
>> Yeah. So crude production did hit uh an
all-time high uh in April around 13.5
million barrels per day. Uh but global
liquids production which includes not
only crude but also natural gas liquids
is actually above 20 million. So twice
as large as the as the second largest uh
oil producers in the world namely Saudi
Arabia and and Russia. Our view is that
the period of very rapid increases in US
supply uh are behind us. We actually
have modest declines in our forecast for
black oil US production both this year
and next because we look for lower
prices. If prices were stable, we would
forecast US supply to edge up uh
slightly. But those periods of very
rapid supply growth are clearly behind
us in large part because the permanent
which has be the biggest growth engine
of of US and global oil supply growth is
maturing.
>> We had 11th week in a row where rig rigs
were down. How does the president then
fulfill his drill baby drill when
producers are saying actually we're
holding off right now because prices are
too low?
>> Yeah. So the rig count is is down
sharply more than 10% on a
year-over-year basis. Part of that is
structural uh because oil producers on
average every year need 8% less rigs to
produce the same amount of oil. Some of
it is cyclical because prices are down
roughly 10% uh year to date. Uh if
prices stay at current levels, we would
expect very modest supply increases from
the US. But taking a step back, I think
the current price level of oil is pretty
close to the sweet spot for the US
economy as a whole. Affordable for the
consumer and perhaps a touch low for
producers. Um but you know still still
above break even uh rates for most US
producers.
>> What would be the price that US
consumers want to see to drill more
>> uh that that US producers want to to
dream? Um yeah I think if you go into
the 70s you you should see a more
significant uh you know rising in
production. I think the current price
level with with TI in sort of the mid60s
is where production moves roughly
sideways to slightly higher.
>> Can I ask you about Chinese demand?
We're doing a round of world tour. I
just wanted to get to that. Just how
robust is that economy right now? What
does demand look like at the moment?
>> Yeah, so Chinese oil demand is up
slightly on a year-over-year basis. We
think it's still down actually from from
the peak one year and a half ago. Um, we
we think that it's coming in a bit
firmer firmer than expected. But I think
the two things to note about Chinese
commodity demand is number one huge
divergence with for instance copper
demand up more than 10% year to date,
but LG imports still down on a
year-over-year basis. China is basically
shifting very quickly to electrify its
economy to reduce reliance on the rest
of the world for oil and gas imports.
The second thing to note about China
demand is you want to distinguish and
use demand commodities that you actually
burn and consume as opposed to apparent
demand where a lot of demand is just to
refill, restock and improve energy
security. And we have seen a big pickup
uh in crude uh inventory builds in China
probably for energy security reasons.
And so while the US is perhaps scaling
down SPR purchases, China seems to be
scaling up SPR purchases
>> reporting, they did this as well during
the pandemic. What happens if the United
States does end up slapping secondary
sanctions on China and India because of
Russia?
>> Yeah. So I think that is an upside risk
to to oil prices. Our our base case uh
is that Russia will will continue to
produce broadly in line with with the
OPEC plus uh quota for for three
reasons. Number one, we think that
President Trump and Western policy
makers in general uh are averse to sharp
price increases. Uh second, I think the
history of sanctions suggests that
Russia and other sanctioned producers
are pretty good at finding workarounds
perhaps by giving discounts to buyers,
price sensitive buyers in the east and
by building up an alternative supply
chain. And third, Russia may perhaps be
too big to sanction. In fact, because
Russia is such a large producer, 10% of
the global market, if you see a big drop
in Russian volumes, prices may go up so
much that Russian oil revenues may
actually rise. That would be
counterproductive.
>> Dis clinic as always, Dan Straven there
of Goldman Sachs on a crude market.
Crude at the moment, Brent crude
positive by a third of 1%, 6870 this
morning. WTI 6680 also higher by 0.6%.
What's interesting there, Dan, is
talking about how Western officials aka
the Trump administration as well might
be don't want to see higher crude
prices. They so they might be adverse to
this idea, this bill that's circulating
in Congress about slapping those
sanctions on similar to what we saw as
well from the Biden administration.
>> Up next on the program, the second
downber surveillance just around the
corner. Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley,
the former St. Louis Fed president, Jim
Bullard, Robert Koigberger of Grammar
Funds Management, and Christian Mani of
Lafayette College.
[Music]
A read through the economy is still
good.
>> What we see is pretty decent underlying
economic growth.
>> We've dropped our recession probability
all the way down to about 20%.
>> Things are good out there. You know, the
consumer is in still a very good spot.
Consumers are feeling okay at present
but this weakening going forward.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Huge distraction yesterday afternoon
firing chairman Pal. Will he? Won't he?
Will he? Won't he? The president says he
won't. Pretty tame price action in the
face of all of that considering the
stakes here on the S&P 500 and for the
bond market. Squeezing out a day of
gains in yesterday's session. this
morning just about unchanged rolling
over into negative territory in the last
10 minutes or so. On the NASDAQ 100,
positive by just 0.03%.
For the day ahead, lots of economic data
90 minutes away. Look out for this.
We'll get jobless claims at 8:30 Eastern
time and retail sales. We've talked a
lot about the composition of spending,
goods versus services. This is about the
rate of spending in America. We'll get
some details later this morning
>> and how the consumer is really fairing
right now in the face of some of these
tariffs which under the surface of that
CPI report. You saw that tariffs are
starting to hit certain sectors. This is
the kind of data the Fed is looking for.
We heard from Williams yesterday talking
about that they think they need to
maintain this restrictive policy because
they don't have the tariff rates set yet
from the president of the United States
and August 1st. Everyone is thinking, is
it really August 1st or is this going to
be another kick the can down the road,
new date and timeline set?
>> And not everybody has the same opinion
of the New York Fed President, John
Williams. Later on today, 6:30 p.m.
Eastern time, you're going to hear from
Governor Waller. Governor Waller's got a
very different view on where he thinks
monetary policy will be, should be. And
when they vote at the end of this month,
he might be one of those guys that puts
his hand up and says, "You know what? I
think we should be cutting." And it's
also very convenient because he's one of
those names that's being tossed around,
that's being written up as an individual
that could ascent to become the Fed
chair when J Pal steps down next year.
And this would be interesting for the
administration to pick because by taking
someone that's already on the board,
that means they have another seat to
play with. The president noted yesterday
that it is a deliberative body. So yeah,
they don't like J. Pal, but at the end
of the day, it is not J. Pal alone that
decides where interest rates are going.
>> You were in the room with the president
yesterday. What did you make of all of
this? Is this just one great distraction
from something else? What is this
>> trial balloon distraction? You know,
having someone like me in there
alongside the Wall Street Journal,
Reuters when there's all these reports
and you're seeing congressmen and women
tweet about it that were in the room
with the president the evening before
and him taking a vote. Should I fire
him? Should I not? Was there a letter?
Was there not? Huge distraction from
other political issues going on,
especially within his base, like what's
going on with Epstein. And at the same
time, he's able to get some data from
this. How did the market react? How far
can I actually push this?
>> I hope they haven't learned the wrong
lessons from yesterday's price action
because based on yesterday's price
action, I think that's nothing like what
it will look like if you actually go
through with trying to fire the Fed
chair. Moves of 7/10 of 1% on the S&P
500, moves of 5 to 10 basis points on
bond yields at the long end. That's not
what it's going to look like. That is
not what it's going to look like if you
go through with it.
>> They didn't think it was credible. They
said, "This is another moment of the
Trump put, taco trade, whatever you want
to call it. He's putting something out
there, trial balloon, but he's not
actually going to go through with it."
And then we all went into the room and
he said, "No, no, I don't have plans for
that. I didn't even draft a letter." And
he actually said to me when I said, "So,
you didn't wave this letter in front of
congressional Republicans." He said,
"No, no, no." I asked them what they
thought of the quote concept. He said,
"They were actually for it." He said,
"But I'm more conservative than they
are." Many of them voted to confirm into
a second term. Equity futures this
morning just turning negative by not
even a tenth of 1% on the S&P. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Mike
Wilson of Morgan Stanley on the
resilience of corporate America. The
former St. Louis Fed president Jim
Bullard on the future of central bank
independence and Robert Koigberger of
Grammy Funds Management on a market
defying uncertainty. We begin this hour
with equity markets shaking off a ton of
policy volatility. Morgan Stanley's Mike
Wilson writing, "Import cost exposure
for S&P 500 industries is more limited
thus far given the combination of the
countries in scope and the exemption
seemingly still in place." Mike joins us
now for more. Mike, good morning.
>> Morning, John.
>> Have we actually been tested? That's the
question I've got for you based on the
note you put out over the weekend.
>> Yeah, I think we keep getting tested
back and forth and I think Amarie did a
brilliant job of kind of describing
yesterday. It's just another example the
president controlling the narrative back
and forth. you know, maybe the timelines
now. I mean, he lets things go even
shorter and then he comes back and
reverses. And I totally agree. I think
it's about trial balloons. It's no
different than Fed policy makers. It's
no different than other policy makers
coming in and they trial balloon it to
see how it will impact the market. So,
have we been tested? Yeah, we've been
tested severely in the first three or
four months of the year. We had a bare
market. Stocks were down 354% over the
prior year. So, I mean, we had a bare
market and so people now are looking for
the I go, well, you missed the bare
market. We had it. You know, we bottomed
in April and all the indicators we look
at from a rate of change standpoint have
have inflected sharply. That's what we
wrote about in our mid-year update and
it's even surprised us to the upside. I
mean, the earnings revision breath is
explosive. And so, you just can't deny
that. You can't deny the fact that
companies are good at mitigating
tariffs. For example, import prices
really aren't up that much. So, the
question is who's eating these tariffs?
That's the big question I hear now from
clients like, well, we're collecting all
these tariffs, but where where are they?
Some of them are on the balance sheets
of companies. that hasn't flowed through
the cost of goods sold yet. Some of them
are from exporters. They've discounted
their pricing. They're eating the
tariffs. And then some of the some of
it's going to get passed on to the
consumer. That's to be determined still.
And so, as we've been saying, the third
quarter is probably the quarter of risk
where you'll see some of this flow
through to the cost of goods sold. I
don't think this is a, you know, a
massive correction. It's a 5 7%
correction. For some companies, it could
be bigger, but this is a quarter of risk
for where the tariffs will start to hit.
And then, but the market's already
thinking about this is a temporary
impact. and 26 now on on an earnings
growth standpoint is looking better.
>> Is that a correction you'd be looking to
buy then?
>> Absolutely. We're looking to I mean I'm
hoping we get a pullback to some degree.
I think a lot of clients are looking for
a pullback of some kind. They've been
surprised we haven't gotten one, but
this is what the beginning of a new bull
market looks like, right? It's just
explosive. It doesn't let people in,
right? The rate of change is
accelerating beyond what you expected.
So, it's just I think the pullbacks will
be short and shallow. Um maybe there'll
be another surprise, another test of
some kind that will cause something more
severe, but I really can't see more than
a five or 10 percent correction given
the given what I see now in the
landscape.
>> When you think of tariffs though, I
think you're talking about the visav
country tariffs, right? The reciprocal.
What about the sectoral tariffs? Does
that make it more complicated?
>> Absolutely. I mean, and that's one of
the reasons why I think a lot of
investors have thrown up their hands and
the market is kind of looking past this
because there's so many carveouts. I
mean, even the USMCA, right, the
exclusions and that's what we heard
about this weekend. So a lot of the
tariffs on China go, you know, we they
go through back door through Mexico.
Well, a lot of that's been excluded. So
the 25% tariff doesn't even end up
hitting that. Then we have the 232
exclusions. We just saw that now, uh,
you know, they can sell semiconductors
into China again. So like there's these
carveouts and it's very confusing. My
base case view and has been this all
year is ultimately I think what they're
going for is a 10% import tax, basically
a consumption tax. And that's where
we're going to land at large. Now, we're
not quite there. Right now, if you do
the math, it's like 16 17%. But
ultimately, if we get to a 10% import
tax, companies can deal with that. You
raise three to $400 billion of revenue
per year. I mean, it's not a bad it's
not a bad strategy.
>> Does the one big beautiful bill tax cuts
offset that import tax?
>> Well, that's exactly the strategy, which
is that you're instead of taxing
companies and private companies and and
and individuals, you're sharing the tax
now through exporters, importers, and
consumers. and then let the market
figure that out. Like figure out where
the tax can get allocated. So what we're
moving from is a is a is an economy
where capital has been allocated by
government to an economy where capital
is being allocated by private
corporations. That's the that's the
beauty of the big beautiful bill is that
you're you're basically shifting the
economy mix from a publicly driven
economy to a privately driven economy.
Something we talked about six eight
months ago, right? But is there a fiscal
impulse given the fact that really the
crux of the one big beautiful bill is an
extension of current policy?
>> That's right. So there's no incremental
fiscal in the traditional way you think
about it. However, there's a massive
positive impact to cash earnings for
corporations and an incentive structure
to start investing. Something that
companies have not been doing for the
last three or four years is investing in
capex. The bill basically encourages
them to spend money on capital goods and
R&D. Something that we need to do to to
grow, you know, down the road. Let's
build on some of this. You talked about
the broad-based earnings revisions. Is
that more than just AI, more than just
big tech? Where else are you seeing
that?
>> So, it's been led by the the Mag 7, so
to speak, but no, it's actually fairly
broad. Now, it is a larger companydriven
sort of revision factor. So, the small
the small companies still aren't seeing
it yet. That's what we've been
underweight. We've remained underweight
the smaller businesses. Now, that could
change if the Fed starts cutting rates.
That's something we're thinking about
for 2026. But, it is a fairly broad
expansion. It's financials, it's
industrials, it's some of the software
stack which was kind of left behind over
the last year year and a half. So it is
it is broadening out and this is I think
a function of look there's been there is
pent-up demand in the economy there
there is pent-up capex in the economy
and some of these incentives now some of
these some of these tax changes I think
do give clarity to companies now saying
okay we can move forward with our
business the legislative agenda is done
now we now we can look forward for at
least three years maybe not beyond that
but at least for the next three years
and we got to get on with our life. What
are the kind of companies you like at
the moment?
>> Industrials and financials really are
the two areas we've been really focused
on and software because I think a lot of
folks are too bearish on software. I
understand why. I mean AI, you know,
coding and all that. But at the end of
the day, this is the part of the tech
cycle where you've done the compute and
now the application layer has to get
built so that you know dummies like me
on tech can actually use this technology
and become more productive. When I'm
walking past the Hudson, down the Hudson
in downtown New York, and I look across
the river to Back Office City
Compliance, all of those workers that
are working for these major financial
institutions, and forgive me because
many of them are watching right now, and
this might be a rather brutal
conversation, how close are we to seeing
some big cuts to the amount of people
that work at these institutions?
>> Well, I mean, compliance is definitely
one area that will be hit, not only from
AI, but also from just a change in in
regulatory environment potentially. We
don't really know. No, I mean we're not
seeing it yet. Okay. I I would say that
the AI concern about employment I think
is real. Um we're seeing it in here's
here's the lead indicator. So the
largest companies who are very fil with
data, okay, your NVIDIA, your metas,
etc. are showing the ability to use this
data, Microsoft, right? They're laying
off people more and more uh because
they're able to use this data. So the
question is can that translate into the
average company in the economy? To to be
determined. Um but uh you know I think
that like I don't want to make a
statement here that's not great for
employees necessarily but man if you
think about what that does for S&P
earnings
>> well this is it Mike
>> really really positive that's why the
multiple keeps expanding because that's
what it's looking forward to
>> the conversation for further down the
road and this is the next several years
you could have this really strange
dynamic where the labor market data
stinks
>> but the earnings coming out of these
companies might be really powerful I
just wonder how far you can push that
how far can we push that
>> well we're going to find out I think
because I think companies you know US
companies are really good at cutting
costs whether it's employees or you know
other types of expenses and so I mean
that's what they're that's what they're
going to do because we're still in kind
of a slow growth topline environment so
companies have to become more efficient
plus they have to offset some of these
other things like tariffs and things
like that so but companies will figure
that out that's why the market continues
to go for the highquality businesses one
other thing that we you know we haven't
talked about yet is last week's Supreme
Court ruling I think was really
fascinating with respect to the
government's ability to do these you
know reductions in force you know from
the Doge and this This this could be
also quite interesting development where
this is like the return of Doge because
I would say most people are disappointed
that Doge wasn't allowed to kind of
complete the deal. They were kind of
blocked that they weren't able to to
kind of reduce government headcount and
maybe this ruling by the Supreme Court
allows Doge to kind of return and we
could see headcount reduction in
government which is another type of a
slowdown in labor which won't affect the
the the market. Right? That's a that's
not great for government employees
necessarily, but that will liberate okay
ear, you know, kind of the the private
economy. Once again,
>> two parts of these conversations when
you talk about the fact that more
capital being allocated to the private
sector, not the US government. But if
you have companies laying off people
because of AI, who has to step in to
help what potentially could be high
unemployment rates? It's going to be the
US government.
>> Yeah. Well, I would hope that, you know,
instead of laying people off, you just
make them more productive. I mean
ultimately
>> that's what everyone says.
>> Yeah. But I mean that look at the end of
the day if you look at the private
economy for the last three years this is
something that doesn't get a lot of
airtime. The private labor force has not
really grown for the most part. Okay.
It's been a government heavy healthcare
heavy uh education like state and local
jobs and the so the private economy has
been operating with fewer employees
already. This is not a new deal. I mean
companies are once again are really good
at being more efficient. So my, you
know, my hope would be that we could
just grow with fewer people. By the way,
you have less immigrants now, right,
because of the shutdown of the border.
So we kind of need this. We need to fill
that gap of making the people who are in
America more productive and so we can
grow the economy.
>> Mike Wilson, smart as always. Good to
see you. Thank you, sir. Mike Wilson
there of Morgan Stanley. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie
Burton. Hey, Lizzie.
>> Hey, John. President Donald Trump is
softening his stance on China. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that the
shift is part of an effort to secure a
summit with China's Xiinping and a trade
deal between the two countries. The
president's softer tone is reportedly
causing tension though among some of his
advisers who prefer a tougher stance
against Beijing. Elsewhere, Walmart is
cutting hundreds of store support roles.
The cuts represent an ongoing effort by
the country's biggest employer to make
its large workforce more efficient.
Earlier this year, Walmart cut corporate
jobs and asked some workers to relocate
to its headquarters in Arkansas and
California. And United Airlines shares
falling in the pre-market after the
company reported second quarter results
that beat analyst estimates but cut its
fullear profit forecast. United CEO
Scott Kirby sounding optimistic, saying
that the world is less uncertain today
than it was during the first 6 months of
the year. Coming up at 8:45 a.m.
Eastern, Lisa O'Bramovitz will be
sitting down with Scott Kirby himself
and that should be my brief. John
>> Lizzy, thank you. Looking forward to
that later on in the program. Up next,
pressure building on Fed Chair J Pal.
>> Have you drafted a letter?
>> No, I haven't drafted a letter.
>> So, you didn't show a letter to
Republican lawmakers last night?
>> No. I talked about the concept of fire.
I said, "What do you think?" Almost
every one of them said I should.
>> Up next, the former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bulard.
[Music]
for all the tantrums, the drama, the
headlines, the S&P 500. So far this
week, positive by 0.06%.
This morning, unchanged again on the
S&P, on the NASDAQ, likewise under
surveillance this morning. Pressure
building on Fed chair J. Pal.
>> There's lots of reports coming into uh
this meeting that you planned on firing
Fed Chair J. Pal.
>> Those are reports, but they're not true.
>> Have you drafted a letter?
>> No, I haven't drafted a letter.
>> So, you didn't show a letter to
Republican lawmakers last night?
>> No, I talked about the concept of
firing. Almost every one of them said I
should. Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump saying he's not
planning on firing the Fed chair after
reportedly discussing the idea in a
meeting with congressional Republicans.
The president adding he doesn't rule out
anything. Joining us now is Bloomberg's
Mike Shepard. Mike, are we seeing any
congressional push back at all to these
threats? Well, not on the Republican
side for the most part. There have been
a handful of lawmakers, including
Republican Senator uh Kennedy from
Louisiana, who expressed concern about
the potential market impact. But
overall, we're hearing from a number of
congressional leaders, including House
Speaker Mike Johnson and uh House Ways
and Means Committee Chair Jason Smith,
who spoke with Kaylee Lines and me
yesterday in this studio on the whole
Fed question, and they endorsed the idea
of this pressure on Powell and even
urged him to perhaps consider leaving
the job early. Now, all of this does
raise the other question of what it
means for Fed independence. We've seen a
number of critics say that look, this
amounts to an assault on the central
bank that traditionally and by law is
independent and not subject to the
political whims and desires of the
president or congress necessarily. The
president was also floating as Amarie
heard in the Oval Office yesterday a
possible theory of the case for how he
might move against Powell if he decided
to do so. And that would be uh this
claim that cost overruns on the Fed
headquarters building in Washington are
enough to merit closer scrutiny of the
Fed chair.
>> Mike Shepard with the latest down in DC.
Shep, thank you, sir. We've seen the
reports, we've heard the denials. Let's
get into it with the former St. Louis
Fed President Jim Pullard. Jim, welcome
back to this program. Sir, I want to get
to monetary policy and economics before
we get to the politics of it all. Do you
think there's is a credible argument for
lower interest rates at this month's
meeting?
>> Um I do think that the Fed could uh
resume its normalization uh process
which was interrupted in the first six
months of this year. So I do think that
that is the baseline plan at this point.
Uh September would be a natural focal
point for that and then maybe follow
that up uh at at a subsequent meeting.
Um but I don't think that the committee
is considering sort of wholesale
reductions in the policy rate because
inflation is still uh somewhat above the
target and uh they want to see the
effects of tariffs.
>> Beneath the headline, Jim, as you know
in the details, it's very much good
versus services at the moment. How
concerned are you by what's developing
in services?
Uh I I still think that the the uh
overall inflation rate is going to
continue to either stay where it is or
decline slightly. And I think that's
pretty good policy. I think you want to
bring the inflation rate back to 2% but
not too fast. And I think they've got
about the right policy to do that. But
they do have some room to lower the
policy rate. And I think we'll see that
in the second half of the year.
>> Jim, you've been on the committee.
You've got plenty of experience.
experience also of the pressure coming
from the White House at the same time.
The pressure coming from the White House
and the president's second term is much
higher, much more powerful, stronger
than we saw in the first term. When
you're on the committee and you hear
these kind of threats, does it change
the way you go about your business in
any way, shape, or form?
>> No, it doesn't. Uh except that what's
happening is that this will induce
inflation risk premium in the 10-year.
And so you'll get higher 10-year yields
than you would otherwise have if this
wasn't going on. And then the committee
has to take that into account. Uh I
don't know why you want to whip up an
inflation risk premium. But obviously
investors want to be careful uh you know
how much inflation is uh the new
administration willing to tolerate uh
going forward and uh that's the thing
that bond investors have to price in. So
uh unfortunately
uh this is going in the wrong direction.
That's also going to uh push up uh
financing costs for the government. Uh
that depends on the weighted average
maturity of the Treasury debt and some
of that's longer term. So some of that
uh uh is going to be influenced uh also
by the uh inflation risk premium that'll
now start to uh develop. So um uh
unfortunately uh uh this is going a
little bit in the wrong direction I
think from probably where the
administration really wants to go.
>> That's the market impact when it comes
to the political theater of this all. JP
Morgan's equity derivatives team is out
with a note saying what's currently
unfolding before our eyes has been
happening for decades behind closed
doors. Is this idea of Fed independence
a myth?
You know, I I we've talked about it
before, but I I don't use the phrase or
try not to use the phrase Fed
independence. I would say it's designed
to be arms length from politics.
Uh which would mean that the Fed chair
is not a cabinet position like the
Treasury Secretary that you get to
appoint as soon as you take office. But
you do get to appoint the Fed chair
about one year into a new term. and and
uh you know that's to give a little bit
of political insulation and so that
things aren't moving you know quite so
rapidly and are smoothed out a little
bit. Otherwise you would have uh a lot
of uh back and forth as administrations
come and go with monetary policy and
that would be uh probably
counterproductive again. You'd get uh
you'd get a lot of uncertainty in
markets that would have to be priced in.
You get a higher level of rates that
that would be unnecessary. So, uh, so I
think arms length from politics is the
way to think about this. I mean, you do
have political appointees, uh, at the at
the Fed, so obviously there's a
political element to it, but it's
designed to smooth out the ups and downs
compared to what you would get for a
cabinet level position.
>> Jim, as you know, each leader at the
Federal Reserve has a different style.
There is a theory on Wall Street, which
I'm sure you've heard, that if someone
is nominated by this president, that the
rest of the committee believes it's just
a political puppet, the rest of the
committee will gang up against them and
maybe they'll just be a chairman and
name only. Can you describe the dynamic
on the FOMC? Whether that's conceivable
from your point of view?
>> Yeah, you did have uh the example of G.
William Miller uh during the Carter
administration and uh he did not have
the uh support of the committee or Paul
Vulker in particular who is then uh the
head of the New York Fed.
The story that I remember that your your
viewers might appreciate is that uh
there was no smoking uh in the room.
There was a no smoking sign and uh
Vulker lit up his cigar and uh started
smoking his cigar. So I think uh that
shows you what can happen if you uh
nominate somebody uh and have somebody
come into the job that that uh doesn't
have the respect of the institution
and uh by law this is all done by
committee and really a chair has to
navigate the committee and win friends
and influence people. So that's a a key
element of the uh of the Fed chair's
role. Jim, I've only got 30 seconds
left, so forgive me, but Governor Waller
was your director of research at the St.
Louis Fed. What kind of Fed share would
he make?
>> Uh, I think he'd be very good. I think
he's a very strong candidate. I don't
know if he'll win this, but uh, he's
certainly got a lot of background in
macroeconomics and monetary economics.
U, but he's also been on the board for
uh, quite a while now and has a lot of
sense of the, uh, Washington interface.
So I think he'd probably be a good
choice here.
>> Jim, appreciate your time, sir, as
always. The former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Pollard on the economics
of the moment and the politics as well
for this Federal Reserve. Up next,
Robert Koigberger of Gravity Funds
Management on a market defying
uncertainty. Plus Yhira with your
morning movers and a rebound in
aviation.
[Music]
It's the story that just won't go away.
The president of the United States
flirting with the idea of firing the Fed
chair Jay Pow, denying it just
yesterday. Jordan Rochester of Missouo
writing this. The denial has stopped the
pace of the market move, but folks now
need to consider the possibility in the
months ahead. And this is the problem.
The St. Louis Fed President Jim Bullard
just moments ago on this program
basically telling us that this political
pressure is going to make it harder for
this Federal Reserve to cut. That's the
issue. Equity futures right now in the
S&P just about unchanged on the NASDAQ
100 positive by 0.07%.
We're 2 hours away from the cash open
with your morning movers. Here's Yhira.
Hi Yahara.
>> Hi John. It's a busy earnings morning
and the latest to report is GE Aerospace
shares are up nearly 9/10en above
percent after it boosted its fullear
guidance. That's because after a rocky
start to the year amid all the tariff
chaos, it is now seeing a surge in
demand for its engines. Commercial
revenue jumped 30% last quarter. And in
that same quarter, earnings also came in
above estimates. as GE says that it's
navigating tariffs by raising prices and
keeping a tight lid on costs. Next up,
we have Zerepta. This company has been
in the news ever since its key gene
therapy was linked to two deaths, but it
is soaring this morning, up 31% on news
that it will deliver big cost cuts by
slashing its workforce. and news that
that gene therapy which is its most
important drug will stay on the market
but with a new warning label. And we end
on the rare earth's mining company and
that is MP Material shares are down 5%
after it announced a $500 million stock
sale. A diluting event that is weighing
on the stock after some really big wins
just yesterday. It said it clinched a
major supply deal with Apple and last
week a multi-billion dollar deal with
the Pentagon. So make no mistake, it is
in hot demand and shares are up 270%
year to date. John,
>> what a move. Yhara, thank you. On our
radio out this morning, our top story,
President Donald Trump denied he's
planning to fire Fed chair J Pal.
Multiple reports servicing yesterday
that Trump was floating the idea and
discussing it with Republican lawmakers.
>> So he discussed it with Republican
lawmakers. I asked him this question
about this draft letter. He said he
discussed the concept of Republican
lawmakers and they were actually for it,
but he's more conservative, he says,
than they are. I think Charles Meyers of
Signum Global Adviserss put it really
well this morning. By issuing trial
balloons like today's, the president is
likely not just testing the market
reaction, but also more importantly
attempting to socialize the idea of
Powell's dismissal such that it may be
more easily digestible if and when it
does materialize, potentially preparing
the market and the public if he decides
to pull the trigger. Thank goodness we
have someone like Scott Besson in the
Treasury because I'm sure Secretary
Besson would be the first to point out
and I'm guessing here but I imagine he'd
look at yesterday's moves and look at
yesterday's moves and say that is a
market that doesn't take this threat
seriously because if they went through
with this yesterday's price action I've
heard so many ridiculous words around
yesterday's price action. Equities
plunged, bond yields surged. Yesterday's
price action was nothing. That was tame
compared to what this would look like if
you go through with it. a blip to
potentially what it could look like if
he was to actually fire Powell. The
other thing is potentially the market's
also thinking about legally what is the
justification for this. The Supreme
Court has made it clear that the Federal
Reserve is independent and even quasi of
its own private entity. So, this would
get held up in courts. What is
interesting is market participants see
the sees this and a few of them were
calling me yesterday when all these
reports were going on saying, "I know
you're at the White House. What the heck
is going on?" They're saying, "Why would
he do this?" because he's going to get
an the outcome in the markets that is
actually directly different than what he
wants to see, especially when it comes
to long-term rates.
>> It's going to make it harder to reduce
interest rates. That's the issue we
heard from Jim Bullard just moments ago,
especially when this Fed is on a glide
path towards cutting basically in
September. Anyway, why disrupt it over a
few months? The pressure is going to
keep on building though and maybe later
on this month you might actually get
someone on the committee sticking their
hand up and saying you know what we
should cut rates right now and offer a
real economic argument for that.
Governor Ward, we're looking at you.
President Donald Trump saying he will
send letters to over 150 countries
telling them their tariff rates could be
10 or 15%. Trump ramping up trade and
tariff demands ahead of levies that are
expected to go into effect on the 1st of
August.
>> So this is basically deja vu from the
campaign trail. 10 to 15% a ring around
the United States when it comes to
tariffs. What's more interesting for me
is what is happening in terms of the
negotiations this administration is
actively having with trading partners
like the European Union, the top trade
negotiator is in Washington having
conversations with Howard Lutnik, the
commerce secretary and USR ambassador
Jameson Grier with Japan. Scott Besson
told us the Treasury Secretary he's
there for world expo day. I beg to
differ that he is not going to take some
trade meetings on the sidelines and then
of course what is happening with the
likes of Canada, Mexico, Switzerland,
South Korea, these big trading partners.
This is where it is going to be
interesting and what kind of kind of
rates we settle on.
>> When you asked Secretary Besson about
this earlier on this week about
deadlines, he really played down the
deadline for China in the middle of
August. How seriously should we take the
deadline for the start of August for
everybody else? Well, the start of
August feels like potentially we're just
going to get these letters. But for
those big trading partners, if they are
in active negotiations, good faith,
we've heard from this administration. I
have heard from their Swiss counterpart
that they have been told and give it
assurances that they will get an
extension if the talks are still
continuing. Then August 1st will come
and go, but I think for those 150, maybe
the president will just set a basic 10
15% and those letters will go out.
>> We've got some additional news this
morning. This from the president also
posting on truth social that Coca-Cola
has agreed to use cane sugar in Coke
beverages in the United States.
Coca-Cola responding with this quote,
"We appreciate President Trump's
enthusiasm. More details on new
innovative offerings will be shared
soon."
>> So, I know what you make of this one. We
do see this maha movement moving
forward. We saw that earlier in the week
when it comes to these ice cream saying
they're going to get rid of like the red
40s and some of these dyes that are in
their products. The president is touting
that they're moving to cane sugar when
it comes to Coke. Now, he is a big
proponent of Diet Coke, so this really
won't matter for him because they use
artificial sweeteners. But then
Coca-Cola comes out with this statement
and saying, "We like the enthusiasm and
maybe we'll have something to share." It
doesn't sound like this deal is done
just yet.
>> I don't know if it's done or not. I will
tell you this, this will help sales at
Kazafarero. We don't drink Coca-Cola,
but if they go back to cane sugar, that
will be in the fridge. They'll be in the
fridge just to try it. I won't be alone.
Others will follow. A lot of people will
do the same thing because they'll want
to try the difference. Everyone goes
crazy about Mexican Coca-Cola in this
country, right? This will help sales in
the United States. Whether it helps
margins, I've got no idea about what it
means for cost and the company can share
that further down the road, but for sure
it will help sales.
>> The Trump effect. We'll have to see
their sales figures. When this
potentially comes back comes out, hits
the hits the markets and whether some
people want to try it. I think I agree
with you. I don't drink soda. Once in a
while, if I'm really on low levels of
sleep, I will have a Diet Coke like the
president. But if I they have a new
offering in this cane sugar the
president is enthusiastic about I think
I try it
>> for sure it will help sales at my house.
I don't know about the rest of you but I
imagine it will. The stock is up in a
pre-market by a quarter of 1%. Let's
turn back to the broader market. Robert
Koenberger of Grammacy writing the
following. The start of the third
quarter brings a familiar level of
uncertainty surrounding the US and
tariff policy. Yet financial markets
appear far less jittery than at the
start of the previous quarter. Robert
joins us now for more. Robert, welcome
to the program sir. really want to lean
on your experience in emerging markets.
If you look at what's been developing
over the last year or so, the chaos is
in DM is not in EM. And I just wonder
from your standpoint what you make of
the role reversal of 2025 so far.
>> Sure. I mean this is a phenomenon that
quite frankly we're used to in emerging
markets. You know, if you go back to the
70s and 80s, it was like developed
markets got sick and emerging markets
went to uh to the hospital so to speak.
So, you know, I spent the better part of
25, 35, 40 years kind of dealing with
endogenous risk within emerging markets.
Now, once again, we get to think about
exogenous risk coming from outside of
emerging markets.
>> Within DM, we're starting to see these
EM dynamics really take hold across
asset classes. Robert, to your point,
we're seeing cross asset correlations
break down. Stocks, bonds, the dollar
all move in the wrong direction in
series of at times of stress. And I just
wonder the lesson that you've got that
maybe you could share with some people
in DM from emerging markets. Your
experience of that and ultimately how to
navigate moments of stress when
everything moves in the same direction.
>> Sure. I mean the only thing that's
certain is is uncertainty. The only high
conviction you should have is low
conviction out here and one has to think
about and prepare for that. And you know
one of the things we also wrote about
this quarter is you know kind of
embracing the volatility. We should
expect volatility. That's the highest
conviction theme that's out there right
now. If you embrace volatility, that
means plan the trade and trade the plan.
I know it sounds simple, but you know,
buy when the market's down and and and
sell when it's up.
>> We've seen a ton of that. Sounds simple
and it's worked because it's worked
because we had a massive U-turn, massive
bounce in the equity market where we
haven't had a bounces in the US dollar.
What kind of opportunities is that
dollar weakness opening up in emerging
markets for you and a team?
>> Sure. I mean uh we have tended to think
about emerging markets local as as a
tactical or opportunistic allocation and
I think that's one of these moments and
part of the story is about emerging
markets the better fundamentals etc but
part of it as you say it's about the the
weaker dollar the entire world has been
overweight the dollar uh there really is
no alternative there's a bunch of
smaller alternatives and emerging
markets local emerging market currency
is part of that now again we think
that's a tactical allocation um and the
trap is that people just go going to
local, stay with local and get stuck uh
at the bottom of the next cycle. So, we
think you're supposed to take a much
more dynamic approach. No matter what,
you have to take a high conviction
approach. Make sure that what you own
you like because in a world of
volatility, you don't want to be shaken
out of a good credit.
>> Robert, we got a little bit of a taste
of what could happen in the markets if
the president was to follow through on
firing the Fed chair. If he actually did
it, what would that mean for the dollar?
Look, I mean, I think the uh the markets
are starting to get used to the idea
that we are going to have another Fed
chair. It will be no later than next
May. And I think the market's going to
start focusing on who that next Fed
chair may be. You know, in my mind right
now, it's it's the battle of the Kevin.
Um, and both appear kind of friendly to
Trump initially, but I wonder which one
will be more friendly in the long haul.
>> Do you think those Kevins are credible?
Yeah, I think they're I I think they're
credible and they both have the ability
to to be independent and I believe Kevin
Worsh in particular, you know, maybe
that's why he didn't get the nod the
first time. Um he's certainly said
things about lowering rates. Perhaps
that's in the short term, but um
ultimately I think they're both going to
have to do what's right for the economy.
>> What is your base case on what is right
for the economy right now? What do you
expect the FOMC to deliver through the
year ahead? Look, I mean, I think uh
it's such a dynamic world and all the
factors that that go into that are
changing. I mean, the most recent factor
is is the the bill itself, right? And
we've got a new round of stimulus. So,
we've got, you know, macro, you know,
macro risk, we've got the stimulus,
we've got AI, we got productivity.
There's just so many things swirling
around. But certainly, I think that
those cuts are coming later than they
might have a month ago. I feel like a
broken record, but honestly, how
stimulative is the one big beautiful
bill when a lot of it is just an
extension of the current policy we have
right now out of Washington?
>> I I guess I mean there's there there's
stimulus and you know, we haven't talked
about the the potential effect of of
deregulation, but I guess it's just
whether you maintain the punch bowl or
not. And let's say if it's maybe it's
not stimulus, but if you take away
what's there, then obviously that's
going to create a headwind. Is that
enough for the remainder of the year
given the uncertainty we are dealing
with? We still don't have finalized
tariff rates and of course now it feels
like we're living in purgatory every day
on what's going to be the latest salvo
between the White House and the Federal
Reserve.
>> Look, I mean there's there's a tugof-war
between all that you mentioned there
between the fundamentals which you know
may be improving because of the bill may
be decaying because of of the uh the
tariffs what have you. But what we
really haven't talked about are
technicals. And so much of what's going
on in this market is about technicals.
And you know, two years ago on your
show, everybody came on and talked about
they were sitting in cash at 5%. Um, and
there was no opportunity cost for that.
There's a ton of of FOMO out here, you
know, fear of missing out. Um, and as
long as there's cash in people's pockets
and FOMO, uh, markets are going to
continue to grind.
>> So, give them an idea this morning,
Robert, on what to do with that cash and
the fear of missing out in say emerging
markets. I'm sure you can't share
specific trades with us that you've got
on at the moment, but just an idea of of
what you like and what you don't like.
>> Look, I mean, I think um in a world
where I just said, you know, the most
the highest certainty is uncertainty,
you need to make sure that you're
certain with the portfolio that you're
building that you really anchor that
portfolio, whether it's in debt or
equities, what have you, in in high
conviction, you know, and for us that
means kind of this better approach, not
just thinking about beta in emerging
markets, but thinking about how to
approach emerging markets. Uh for us
it's you know a lot of the high
conviction comes from uh private credit
you know private credit in emerging
markets looks like developed market 15
years ago senior secured collateral
uncorrelated collateral etc. So the the
real the real opportunity here is to
make sure that you have high conviction.
>> Robert appreciate your time as always
it's good to hear from you. Robert
Koixberger there of gremacy funds
management on the situation with the Fed
and DM starting to look a whole like em.
Yeah, definitely is. And obviously for
someone like him who has that
experience, what he's looking at almost
maybe this is easier. But something he
said remains true for the Trump
administration, you have to expect that
volatility is going to be high. It's the
biggest conviction trade and it is here
to stay for the remainder of the three
and a half years.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey John. Now the latest on the Air
India flight that crashed just 32
seconds after takeoff. sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that a cockpit
voice recording indicates a younger
co-pilot asked the captain why he turned
off the plane's fuel supply switches and
the pilot denied turning off the
switches according to that cockpit voice
recorder. Elsewhere, New York Fed
President John Williams is backing the
central bank's wait andsee approach.
Williams shared that he still expects
tariffs to have a bigger impact on
inflation in the months ahead, calling
the Fed's stance on monetary policy
modestly restrictive and entirely
appropriate. And JP Morgan racked up a
$30 billion profit in the first half,
more than double its closest rival and
widened its lead over Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley when it comes to
investment banking revenue. Its market
value now exceeds that of Bank of
America City and Wells Fargo combined.
And that's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzy in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, the economy holding up. So if
you look on the consumer side and our uh
70 million consumers who engage with the
economy every day because they're
employed and because wage growth they
are continuing to grow and spend more
and that's helps the economy. Up next
we'll catch up with Krishna Mammani of
Lafayette College from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equity
futures on the S&P down here by a tenth
of 1%. Your scores so far this Thursday
morning pretty mild. move lower on the
NASDAQ totally unchanged on the Russ
caps down by 0.5
and Savanis this morning the economy
holding up.
So if you look on a consumer side in our
uh 70 million consumers who engage with
the economy every day because they're
employed and because wage growth they
are continuing to grow and spend more
and that's helps the economy. They've
got money in their accounts. They're
employed and the wage growth has been
relatively strong and you know so
they're in pretty good shape.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking ahead to jobless
claims and retail sales due out in just
under an hour following mixed inflation
data early this week. Krishna Mani of
Lafair College saying whether I like it
or not markets are treating the current
environment as almost Goldilocks.
Krishna joins us now for more. Krishna,
good morning.
>> Morning. How are you?
>> Do you like it? Well, so you know, if
you kind of think about it, the
underlying economy, as Brian Monahan was
talking about, remains relatively
strong. I would have expected it to
weaken some, but there's no sign
whatsoever on that front. So, as long as
that is together in place and you know,
with the the tariff drama kind of fading
a little bit and with all the minations
on the Fed's side, markets anticipating
rate cuts next year, if not in the near
term, I think that's a good mixture. And
in in a way it's a good mixture and if
we combine with the current valuations
it's basically redoing 2122. So you know
we will have a speculative rally and
kind of there's no point sitting that
out. Uh but at the same time recognize
that it may not last for as long as uh
you may think.
>> 20 21 2022. Yes.
>> The boom and the bust.
>> Yes.
>> Led by tech. Well, so if if there is
going to be a burst, uh it cannot be
without tech because that's where the
most of the oomph is. So I I I think if
if that's the thesis you play with, I
think that will include tech in it for
sure.
>> Now, given what you're saying, that's
not necessarily a reason to sit this
out. No,
>> in fact, it might be an argument to stay
in it.
>> Absolutely. I think again, you know,
given all the uncertainties that we had
beginning of the year, it was worthwhile
sitting it out. But now that is out of
the out of the realm. Uh I I think
sitting it out would would really be bad
investing in a way
>> until when?
>> Well, until the either the economy
starts slowing down uh or the policy
uncertainty kind of get comes together
in one you know cohesive way and you see
fall off in investments and things like
that.
>> Let's talk about the price action this
week and forgive me for making this
really small and just about this week.
We always say on this program, it's
something people think about on Wall
Street. You can learn something from the
data and how the market responds to it.
This week's data is the earnings.
Earnings from the bank's pretty
powerful. Very good. Bank stocks are
down on the week.
>> What's the signal that you take from
that?
>> Well, so you know, again, bank stocks
had done, you know, extraordinarily
well.
>> Precisely. Huge round.
>> Exactly. So I I think that that was in
anticipation of higher earnings because
of the market volatility. So I I think
this is a little bit of uh you know buy
the story sell the news kind of the
thing
>> begs the question though Krishna whether
we need a step up in the macro the
backdrop whether you need to see a new
tailwind a fresh tailwind for earnings
what it is you need to get this equity
market to take another leg higher
>> well so I I I think the outlook for
earnings is decent but it's not
spectacular the outlook for economy is
decent but not spectacular if if
anything the the turn is probably going
to be lower rather than higher. So I
don't think those are really the
tailwinds for the market. The the
tailwinds for the market is basically
the speculative frenzy that is going on
right now. If you look at the underlying
stocks, the things that are doing well
are are things that are really uh uh
kind of bubble related in in some
fashion tech bubble related and that's
what you know it's kind of very
difficult to unwind all of that in a
hurry. That's that's really the driver
of the market. I want to ask you about
policy because you say we're almost in
an environment of Goldilocks at the same
time we're in the middle of trade wars
and the president of the United States
was threatening to fire the Fed chair.
How are we in a Goldilocks in this kind
of political environment?
>> Well, so that sort of tells you the
answer right there. That is all of that
is being discounted by the market and
rightly so. That is the likelihood that
a president who wants a stock market
higher, interest rates lower will do all
the things that he is threatening to do
and the markets are interpreting it as
just as much that
>> the market is interpreting this as taco.
But what if they're wrong and at some
point between now and the end of the
year he writes that letter and sends it
off?
>> Well, so if he writes that letter and it
is 10 15% I don't think that is the end
of the world for the markets at all.
Especially if that
>> I mean the other letter. I mean firing
the Fed chair.
>> Well, so I I think the the firing the
Fed chair is really not equity negative
for you know because if he gets lower
rates that probably supports the bubble
rather than takes a I think firing the
Fed chair is really bad for the bond
market uh rather than the equity market.
It may actually be one can make a case
that it's actually equity positive.
>> Are you more comfortable in stocks right
now versus bonds? Yes, I I I want to buy
bonds because at 4 and a half level or
close to it, it's a really good buy from
the long-term perspective, but not in
the current environment though.
>> What is stopping you?
>> Just the uncertainty that the political
uncertainty that is the direction of the
Fed is not ideal for bonds or the
dollar.
>> When you say the direction of the Fed,
the direction of the political pressure
on the Fed or the direction of what the
Fed is doing? Well, the the the what the
Fed is doing today is somewhat less
relevant than what the Fed is likely to
do in 2026. And that's what the market
is kind of looking at. That is right
now. We talk about firing Jerum Paul and
all that stuff. But at the end of the
day, you know, that's really a 69 month
transition period. It's really what is
going to happen in the follow over the
next 2 3 years. That's what the markets
are looking at.
>> Market's looking for 100 basis points in
26. Yes.
>> Would you fade that? Well, no, but I I
think if if if the uh political
appointment is what what is being
speculated in the market,
>> we'll get that and some
>> and and and well then some is probably
will depend on how the rest of the
committee plays along. The chair has an
impact but is not a supreme ruler by any
measure. So, we'll we'll see.
>> Everyone's got a number 450 right now in
10. What makes you a buyer? Never mind
the backdrop. What's your number? Well,
I I think 450 for a developed market
with sub let's say 2% type growth and
inflation continuing to trend down is
actually a very decent level for a bond
buyer and there are plenty of bond
buyers out there especially given
valuations in the equity market. The
challenge is who wants to step in front
of a freight train.
>> Krishna, it's good to see you.
>> Good seeing you as well. Thank you.
>> Thank you sir. Krishna Mali there of
Lafair College. The freight train being
the president or the bond market but bit
of both right now. I imagine. All right,
the 10-year 450, the 30-year just north
of 5% closing at that level for a second
consecutive session. Up next on the
program, fantastic lineup for you. Jim
Demar of Bank of America, Chuck Grom of
Gordon Hasset, Francis Donald of RBC,
and the United Airlines CEO, Scott Kirby
on an industry that's bouncing back.
Equity futures right now in the S&P 500
negative by a tenth of 1%. We talked
about that bond market. 450 is a good
level to buy. Krishna just doesn't want
to buy it. from New York. This is
Bloomberg
[Music]
positioning continues to chase higher.
That has been the key driver of the
market rally and the reason why equities
have been able to defy all odds.
>> The momentum is coming from different
directions. Is it enough to kind of turn
the tide where the whole economy
benefits? I think the jury's out on
that.
>> One of the main risks that we saw were
high valuations in a very concentrated
market. We still have those same exact
risks.
>> We think it's broadening this year.
Equities are a great asset to capture
that expansion.
>> The onus now is on the earnings and
growth story.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Blindberg surveillance starts
right now, 30 minutes away from economic
data in America. Your scores look like
this this morning. Equity futures on the
S&P barely negative. We're down by 0.05%
on the S&P after squeezing out a day of
gains in yesterday's session. In about
29 minutes time, we'll look at some
economic data. We'll look at this retail
sales in America plus jobless claims.
Another read on the labor market.
>> I'm really looking forward to seeing
these retail sales. Do we see s any sort
of tariff impact which we saw under the
surface in this latest CPI report or
honestly do we just see consumer
fatigue? Remember everyone talking about
how they went out rushed these big
purchases. People in my family even did
it. Are we starting to see a consumer
that's been fatigued? They made their
big purchases and they're starting to
pull back a bit.
>> If they're fatigued investors are
absolutely exhausted exhausted by the
last 24 hours. The reports the reports
that the president was about to fire the
chairman of the Federal Reserve. the
reports that he was waving around a
letter in front of congressional
Republicans, a letter which was a draft
ready to fire the chairman of the
Federal Reserve. And then he comes out
and says, "What are you talking about?
We're not going to do that."
>> Right to my face. He said, "I know I
didn't sign a letter. I didn't write a
letter, but I did talk to congressional
republic Republicans about a quote
concept of firing Fed chair Jal." He
said they were for it, but he's a bit
more conservative than they are. You saw
a lot of tweets as well, even from uh
Congress members saying, "I heard from a
very good source that the Fed chair is
going to get fired." Which is why
everyone thought a lot of this was
credible. Although, to your point all
morning, Jonathan, the market just got a
little taste. They didn't really think
this was full credibility. They thought
this was potentially a Trump put or taco
trial balloon testing what potentially
could happen.
>> Yesterday afternoon, the price action
was tame. If you believe that's what
it's going to look like, that's what
it's going to look like if the chairman
of the Federal Reserve is fired. I don't
know what to tell you. Equity futures
right now in the S&P just about
unchanged. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Jim Demar of Bank of
America with stocks finding some
stability. Francis Donald of RBC
counting down to jobless claims and
retail sales. And later this hour, the
CEO of United Airlines, Scott Kirby, as
travel demand, Amarie, really starts to
bounce back, particularly for the second
half.
>> Second half. What United is saying is
they see a strong second half. And this
comes after remember when they would
give two different guidance depending on
if the United States was going to
continue growing or if it was going to
be in a recessionary environment. What
you heard from United echoes what we
heard from Delta. They think the
uncertainty is behind us and it is clear
skies straight away.
>> A lot of people have just moved on. We
begin this hour with stock steady as
investors digest uncertainty around Fed
chair JPAL's future. Jim Dear of Bank of
America writing volatility has whipsed
global markets. That's been good for the
markets, businesses at Bank of America.
Jim joins us now for more. Jim, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you.
>> Great to see you.
>> It's great to catch up. Masses of
volatility. Yes, you can have the good
kind and the bad kind. Why was this the
good kind?
>> Uh, you know, the the we like to think
about everything in terms of channels.
You know, when there are channels of
price action, channels of volatility,
those tend to be better opportunities
for investors to put money to work. You
know, if we were sitting here 10 years
ago, the bigger conversation was
financial repression, right? And if you
look at realized volatility in both the
equity markets and in the uh rates
markets, let's focus on the US, um those
uh that realized volatility is
considerably higher than where we were
then. And you see a lot of investors,
you know, macro strategies are becoming
much more popular today than they were
10 years ago when it was just difficult
with suppressed volatility to to deliver
alpha. And so I think, you know,
volatility's here. We're in a different,
you know, political and and economic
environment than we were 10 years ago.
So my s, you know, my my suggestion
would be get used to to a higher degree
of volatility.
>> You think this is an ongoing feature of
this regime? I I I think just where we
are in the economic cycle, I mean,
things are just very different, right?
We're going to have uh increased uh you
know, there's increased spending
happening in infrastructure, in
technology, in defense. Uh we've got
high levels of debt in the developed
world that becomes, you know, more
topical depending on what other actions
are taking place or headlines are
hitting during, you know, during a given
day. a lot of focus on Japan, you know,
for the last month, a month and a half.
You know, in April, we were talking more
about the US markets and concerns about,
you know, a failed Treasury auction,
which I think was extreme, you know, to
say the least. But, you know, in the
end, some of these larger structural
issues remain and I think we'll go
through periods of, yes, there's
obviously concern about, you know, Fed
independence and and what could happen
there, you know, and I think you've had
pretty much everybody on the show talk
about it for the last the last, you
know, 24 hours.
>> Please give us your opinion.
>> The last 24 hours. Fed independence is
good. I'll I'll I'll leave it at that.
>> If it starts to be threatened, what does
it mean? Um, I think people are going to
I think people are going to wait to see
what happens. I don't think anybody's
going to be uh is is going to exit the
markets on concerns that that that is a
certainty. I think with many things that
have have transpired over the last 90
days, there is a there's a test period.
You know, theories are tested in the
markets, markets respond, that
information is filtered back into the
decisioning process, and we're going to
continue, you know, we're going to
continue on that path. But I do think
you know when you think about the
sovereign debt uh levels in developed
you know economies across the across the
globe um that is a real concern. Uh it's
going to you know it's going to keep
popping its head up or rearing its head
until you know there's some resolution.
There was a lot more talk about it until
uh the bill was passed. Now it's again a
focus on Japan and I'm sure there'll be
talks about you know other countries in
Western Europe and and and you know and
in the UK as we as we continue on that
path. So, you know, I think betting
against volatility is not a good
strategy for for the near and midterm.
>> When it comes to volatility right now,
what makes this environment potentially
different or I guess you can mirror it
to Trump 1.0 is its politics and policy
that is driving this in financial
markets.
>> Yes. And and again, I think that's why
it's a materially different uh
environment than we had, you know, post
the financial crisis up through COVID.
While we had different administrations,
the policy path was still pretty
consistent regardless of Democratic or
Republican administrations and the Fed
policy was very consistent and you know
it was QE for a large part of it and
that was a you know repression in in in
volatility and that environment is no
longer here.
>> What's the number one question clients
ask you?
>> Um wow that's a that's a really great
question. Uh I think the biggest focus
remains on
whether we're getting cuts this year,
you know, or not. And there's some
pretty strong views on on either side.
Um you know, and that's really a bigger
question on what do we think inflation
looks like? Is it transitory, you know,
or is it going to uh remain at a higher
elevated rate? I would say the second
largest question if you get out of the
bond markets for a second is you know
the AI investment period that we're in
today is it a bubble is it a high
correlation to what we saw you know in
the late '9s going into 2000 and you
know there's stories written on that
that every day I think what's very clear
uh is that the investment is going to
continue for the for the near to medium
term um whether it's a result of
corporations or sovereign uh sovereign
you know governments being focused on uh
AI being critical to economic growth and
safety and so you see that regard all
around the world you know governments
are making it uh one of their top
mandates to be to to be a leader in in
AI
>> it's driving for equity markets in a
massive way basically at alltime highs
still on the S&P 500 very close and
credit spreads are super tight high
yield spreads are very very tight do you
see that as justified or a sign of
complacency there is a manner another
bank who believes that maybe it's a sign
of complacency. Don't have to name it
today. I want your opinion on that.
>> Yeah, I mean we we go through periods
of, you know, when the market's down,
nobody wants to buy it and everybody
gives 15 reasons why it's going to go
lower and it goes up and then people
give you reasons why it's not going to
go, you know, it's not going to go any
higher. I think the markets in general
and and people were, you know, as
humans, we have a certain degree of fear
in us and we're worried about what could
happen and what could be
life-threatening and that's just human
psychology. and post the financial
crisis, we look at it and say, "Okay,
what are we, you know, what are we
missing?" I think a lot of what the
issues are that could result in a
repricing in assets across the markets,
they're all out there. The question is,
are the markets reflecting that in their
current price? To me, that's really the
question that you always have. And you
know, the debate is today, you could sit
with people today and they'll tell you
that, you know, the real level of rates
in the US market in the long end is is
too high based on what their
expectations are. You know, the conver,
you know, converse of that is people are
saying that we're concerned about
long-term debt because of structural
budget deficits. You know, flip it over
to the equity markets. There's many
people that are excited and saying AI is
real. It's going to drive productivity.
We're going to see a boost in earnings
across uh, you know, across industries
and across sectors. And then there are
others that say, well, you know, this is
just another bubble and we've seen this
we've seen this play through.
It's a good opportunity for us. We have
a lot of clients that are thinking about
things differently and obviously you
know our strength is is intermediating
risk lending to them as they pursue
these opportunities and that's what
we're focused on.
>> What I sense from you is that now there
is a bias to act
>> in early April it felt like a lot of
people were just paralyzed by the
backdrop.
>> Yes.
>> Where's the bias to act coming from? Are
they just moving on from this policy
story in Washington or have they got the
clarity they want or at least enough
clarity to just move on?
>> I think the first that's a really great
question and I think it's difficult to
answer but I would answer it this way.
You know you start with framing what are
the extremes that could happen and then
getting comfort within that and I think
at the time when uh the tariffs were
announced the concerns were how you know
this could be a material negative impact
on global GDP. Okay. and and and that
was reverberating and at the same time
we just happened to have treasury
auctions you know within a week's time
and then so you had this uh period of
disruption in the equity markets
uncertainty you get to the bond markets
we're having large auctions someone
starts to focus on and it it you know
proliferated in the market what the
participation rate was of of you know
foreign investors in the three-year note
which you know if you go back and look
at the numbers yes that was a high
singledigit participation at the time,
but that's not the first time it's been
a high single-digit participation
relative to participation, you know, in
double digits. But, you know, if you
wanted to find negative dots to connect
to come up with a very negative story,
we provide, you know, the markets
provided it. So,
>> a few months ago, 20-year auction. Yes.
>> Nobody in fixed income cares about a
20-year Treasury.
>> Nobody. And then all of a sudden, you
have a soft 20 year and all of a sudden
that's a reason to sell everything.
>> Yes. So to that point, I think that
framing and then bringing it in and as
some of those outliers or the extremes
of those risks are framed and framed
narrower and narrower, that's when you
get that, you know, you get positive
sentiment.
>> When you talk about those extremes, do
you also think that the president has
set red lines what he's willing and not
willing to do? This idea of a Trump put,
do you think investors have taken that
on board?
I think that uh he's a he's a very smart
man and he's very connected to what's
happening in the markets. I don't think
that that's the only driver of his
decisions clearly based on what the uh
the statements have come from him in in
the administration. But that being said,
you know, we are one of the most
powerful economies in the in the world
and and you need to be cognizant of
that. Um, but I do think that there's uh
if you're being objective and
independent, you can frame things
I think and and get get to a point where
you know where the extremes could be and
those extremes have been coming in and I
think that's giving people more comfort
to make some of these decisions. I mean,
you know, sector trends that are
happening in equities, the investments
happening, it's happening with people
that have the capital to make the
investments. It's clear that the need is
there. Now whether it's going to result
in the productivity or uh cost saves you
know that's going to take you know more
2 three four years to see that so I
think for that sector but then you have
it in energy investment that's happening
um defense which is you know globally
that's becoming a thing so I think if
you look at those sectors in the equity
markets people feel comfortable that
there there are strong fundamentals and
technicals and it gives them the uh the
the kind of uh strength and optimism to
to carry on. I think the bond markets
are going to keep, you know, the
volatility up and and you know, Brian
mentioned it uh, you know, yesterday.
You know, we went through uh a
historical period of low front-end rates
that was unprecedented
and I don't think those times are coming
back. Um, I think there are people that
run certain investment strategies and
certain people in the real economy that
would really like zero interest rates
and I think that's why you're seeing
some of the correction continue in the
real estate market just because interest
rates are normalizing higher. Um, and
we're going to continue to see, you
know, challenges for those industries.
And I'm not, you know, highlighting just
the real estate industry. If you were a
highly levered company and and you were
used to borrowing short term, that's no
longer a viable strategy.
>> Can we finish at the long end of the
curve?
>> Yes. Is the character of developed
market sovereign debt markets beginning
to change? Typically, by definition,
when bad things happened in DM, you
bought the bonds, you bought treasuries.
It just feels like that story starting
to turn and we have these moments of
stress where we see equities and bonds
trade in tandem together. It's not just
the US, we see it in Europe, we're
seeing in other countries, too. What's
happening? And how are investors
changing? Well, I think it's I think I
mean you hit it and that was one of the
big concerns, you know, for smart
investors that saw that price action.
You know, stocks down, bonds down, uh
that's not a good sign for health of of
the markets from a historical uh
perspective. And with that being said
and with the concerns about the deficit,
I still think I mean the markets are
telling me I think that there's still
optimism that there's going to be uh you
know a better uh uh uh deficit
environment on a go forward basis. I
mean if you think about it meaning maybe
we're going to get growth that's higher
than this projected and perhaps the
deficit the structural deficit that we
have won't remain as large as what's
been feared. I mean, if you think about
it, the bill was passed. The information
is now clearly out there. This is what
everybody was worried about, and there
hasn't been a consist there hasn't been
a significant sell-off. I'm not saying
that there hasn't been 10 15 basis point
moves, but you know, people are talking
about a 6% long bond as as a given, not
as a possibility, you know, just months
ago. So, I do think that calmer heads
are prevailing and people are just want
to see this data flow through the system
and see this policy flow through the
system. Let's hope it stays that way.
Let's do it again soon. Great to see
you. Great to see you. Thanks.
>> Thank you, sir. Jim Demand there of Bank
of America. The 30-year not at 6% of
course today at 5%. Thank goodness.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie Burton.
Hi, Lizzie.
>> Hey, John. President Trump said he's not
planning to fire Fed Chair Jay Powell.
He made the comments to reporters in the
Oval Office following reports that he
discussed the idea with a group of
Republican lawmakers. The president
added, "I don't rule anything out, but I
think it's highly unlikely unless he has
to leave for fraud." Referring, of
course, to his recent criticism of the
Fed's $2.5 billion renovation plan.
Elsewhere, AI spending momentum seems to
be holding up as TSMC raised its 2025
revenue growth outlook. It raised its
projection after the chip maker reported
a better thanex expected net income,
keeping a streak of beating estimates
every quarter since 2021. TSMC said that
it'll stick with plans to spend up to
$42 billion to upgrade and expand
capacity this year. And Walmart is
cutting hundreds of store support roles.
The cuts represent an ongoing effort by
the country's biggest employer to make
its large workforce more efficient.
Earlier this year, Walmart cut corporate
jobs and asked some workers to relocate
to its headquarters in Arkansas and in
California. And that should be my brief.
John
>> Lizzy, thank you. Up next, the morning
calls. Plus, we'll catch up with Chuck
Grum of Gordon Haske just ahead of
retail sales. That data dropping in
about 13 minutes time.
[Music]
This is a quarter of risk for where the
tariffs will start to hit and but the
market's already thinking about this is
a temporary impact. I'm hoping we get a
pullback to some degree. This is what
the beginning of a new bull market looks
like, right? It's just explosive. It
doesn't let people in, right? The rate
of change is accelerating beyond what
you expected. So, it's just I think the
pullbacks will be short and shallow. And
I really can't see more than a 5 or 10%
correction. as Mike Wilson and Morgan
Stanley looking for a pullback and if we
get one he wants to buy it got a small
pullback this morning not even a tenth
of 1% on the S&P unchanged on the NASDAQ
100 that's the price action let's get
you some morning calls first up Scotia
Bank initiating a sector outperform
rating on Oracle seeing it as a top AI
infrastructure provider that stock is up
by 7/10en of 1% HSBC starting with a
street low price target of 32 on
coreweave expecting weak cash flow and
finally Jeff cutting Starbucks to
underperform saying the valuation is
unwarranted and seeing a same store
sales slump in the third quarter. Let's
stick with the consumer retail sales
just moments away 8:30 Eastern time.
Joining us now is Chuck Rom of Gordon
Haskit. Chuck, welcome to the program.
It's good to catch up as always looking
ahead to retail sales. I just want to
understand from your standpoint looking
at the various companies that fall under
your coverage. What's doing well right
now and what's struggling?
Yeah. Well, you were just talking uh
about rates with your prior guest and
and we think the the home improvement uh
space is is still struggling. You know,
there's not been a lot of activity given
where interest rates are and and big
ticket uh spending is is under a lot of
duress right now. So, I think home
improvement is has been soft into the
second quarter. We'll get some color on
June sales like you said in about 10
minutes. I think uh conversely, this the
spaces or verticals that have been doing
better are really anything with value.
So, warehouse clubs have been doing
better. Costco, BJ's, uh, the the the
dollar stores have started to improve
after a couple years of being under a
lot of duress. So, DG, Five Below, Ali's
are all doing better. And then we think
companies like Walmart are significantly
outperforming uh, Target. So, anything
with value, we could probably throw in
off price there too, are doing better.
And like I said, home improvement um,
softer right now.
>> Chuck, do you see an impact of tariffs
just yet?
>> Great question. No. uh not yet, but we
think we're close. Uh we we do a lot of
monthly pricing work. We just did it in
June and and on average across our our
group, we're up about 2 and 12% relative
to April. Um but all the companies we've
talked to over the past week think we're
going to start to see price increases in
about four weeks. So right in the thick
of back to school um is when we're
expecting it and we we're expecting to
see it throughout the the balance of the
year. So to right now, no. And I think
that's why consumers have been holding
in. It'll be very interesting to see how
uh we see elasticity um in in the coming
months when prices start to go higher.
>> When you talk to these businesses and
they think that there will be some sort
of tariff effect coming down the
pipeline, how is it spread across the
supply chain?
>> It it's generally like a third of the
suppliers are absorbing it, a third the
companies are are finding ways to absorb
it either through cost cuts or other
measures. And then I we think about a
third will get passed on to the
consumer. Um as of right now,
>> how is it difficult is it going to be
potentially to read this uh retail sales
report because there's tons of stories
and data about the fact that people were
hoarding ahead of the tariffs to want to
get ahead of it. Now we're going into
the second half of the year. Do you
think consumers are just fatigued at
this moment?
>> I think there was a little bit of pre-
buying back in in March and April. Um I
don't think that's going to probably
play into the June report. it might in
certain categories like appliances and
maybe home furnishings. So to your
point, you you can't really read into
pops in those certain verticals. I I
think we'll see that a better read
probably in August and September on
really the true health of the consumer.
If you think about June and July for
retail, it's kind of like January.
They're not very important months. You
really don't want to read too much into
it. Back to school, obviously the second
biggest time of the year after the
holidays, it's going to be a really
important proxy for for the group. And
just coming back to tariffs, the
president's talking about that he's
going to have 10 to 15% rate on 150
countries. He's actively engaged on the
biggest trading partners. How important
is it for those businesses you talked to
that he finalizes rates so they could
plan for the remainder of the year in
2026?
>> Yeah, we were talking with Walmart
earlier in the week and they're talking
about how every day they got to go back
to the drawing board on on what they're
going to price and how they're going to
execute. I I think just knowing what the
rules of the engagement are are is
really paramount. I think most companies
can deal with what the rates are going
to be, but just getting some
finalization on that I think is very
important for all these companies and
they certainly all want it.
>> Hey Chuck, appreciate the update. Chuck
Grum there. All right, I've got thank
you sir on the retailers going into
retail sales in about 5 minutes time.
just going back to April can't really
overstate this, overemphasize the
importance of that meeting between the
retailers in the White House with the
president of the United States.
>> Basically telling him this is what
prices could look like if rates stay at
an elevated level. And what Chuck is
talking about there is this can all hit
consumers back to school. That is
politically potent for this White House.
They don't want to see families struggle
to get their kids back to school when
they ran on we are going to make America
more affordable again. We've said a lot
about the bond market pushing back and
the bond market did push back. Equities
did too. Corporate America pushed back
as well. Maybe silently behind closed
doors in meetings at the White House,
but corporate America pushed back as
well. Up next on the program, breaking
retail sales, plus jobless claims and
reaction from Francis Donald of RBC from
New York. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Economic Days are just moments away.
We're waiting for retail sales and
jobless claims. The scores going into
that look like this. Secret equity
futures on the S&P 500 unchanged on the
NASDAQ positive by tenth of 1% in the
bond market. Check out the bond market.
2-year, 10 year, 30 year at the long end
of the curve. A close above 5% for a
second consecutive session this morning
up another basis point. The yield 5.02%
yields a little bit higher on a 10-year
and a two-year as well. With that
economic data is Mike McKe. Good
morning, Mike.
Good morning, John. Right now, we're
looking at what's coming in from the
rest of the world because uh we shop uh
retail sales up 610 on a headline
number. Americans in their cash
registers. uh we were expecting only a
tenth of a percent and s headline sales
had fallen 9/10en of a percent. The
weakness was supposed to be in cars but
x auto were up 510 of a percent. So not
as much weakness in automobiles as
thought. X auto and gas up 610 compared
with a tenth of a percent last month.
This is all good news for growth in the
second quarter. Jobless claims come in
at 221.
That's down from 228 last week. So also
good news for the economy. Continuing
claims 1,956,000
just up a little bit from 1954. So we're
still seeing people having trouble
getting jobs, but it isn't advancing as
much as it it had been. The Philadelphia
Fed jumps 15.9
from -4. I'll check in a moment on the
prices paid there. And import prices
come in up just a tenth of a percent.
So, uh, no, uh, tariff effect there, but
tariffs are not collected on import
prices. They're collected after that.
So, uh, that's not going to really show
us a whole lot about, uh, what Trump
policies are doing. I'm going to check
into where we bought stuff, what we
bought, uh, and, uh, you can check into
the markets.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, S. I'll be back
with you in just a moment. At the
headline level, this is just better
news. It's an upside surprise on retail
sales. It's the right kind of downside
surprise on jobless claims. That's what
you want to see. The labor market doing
okay and American spending. Equity
futures on the S&P still just about
unchanged. Some price action developing
though in the bond market. 2-year,
10-year, 30-year yields up at the front
end by four basis points. The 2-year
39276 on 10 up two basis points as well
447 call it 448. And in the FX market,
the dollar the strongest against the
euro in about a month. Euro dollar at
the moment looks a little something like
this 11570.
That's a better story to tell on a
headline basis. this morning.
>> Absolutely. A better story to tell also
for this White House. When you see
people continuously push back on the
concerns of the uncertainty of tariffs,
guess what? Americans seem to be looking
through all of this. They are continuing
to spend. When you see retail sales
shower than expected growth in June, to
your point, Jonathan, jobless claims
coming down. This is a hot report and
it's definitely going to be taken with
notice and optimism from this
administration.
>> Michael McKe, it's a hot report on the
first look. What about the second?
It's a little more mixed. This is a
little bit like what we've gotten in the
price reports over the last couple of
days because some of the stuff under the
hood isn't quite as good. The big
surprise is in autos. Motor vehicle and
parts dealers up 1.2% after 6 and a
half% the month before in May. Of
course, everybody was rushing to beat
the tariffs. Electronic stores down a
tenth of a percent and furniture stores
down a tenth of a percent. Those are two
areas that have been tariffed at least
coming in uh from China and some of the
Asian countries. But we spent a lot on
food up half a percent. Health and
personal care up half a percent.
Clothing and accessories up 9/10en of a
percent. So everybody was out getting
their new swimsuits for the summer it
looks like. And sporting goods up 2/10en
of a percent. Often that's a category
that is tariffed. Uh food services and
drinking places that reflects consumers
attitudes. And that was up 6/10. So that
is uh good news although it was up 6.6%
the month before. So people backing off
a little bit on some of the
discretionary spending but they are out
there spending on uh other stuff uh at
least stuff that is not tariffed.
>> Mike McKe stay close. Francis Donald
with us around the table of RBC. Francis
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We had the pull forward. Where's the
payback?
>> First rule of American economics. Never
bet against the US consumer. This is
what they teach you the first day on the
job. Another report that shows you there
is a lot of strength underneath this
consumer. But we do have to be careful.
Two reasons. This is a very distorted
cycle, John. We had front loading, we
have backloading, we have goods coming
back. We have services rising and vice
versa. We have to be a little bit
cautious about saying this is signal
about where the American consumer is
going next. And number two, I will die
on this hill. There's a lot of
fragmentation in this US consumer right
now. Lots of strength at the upper
incomes, much less at the lower incomes.
So while this is reassuring news,
especially especially because that job
market continues to hold on, we still
see a moderation in the consumer in the
second half of this year. Uh but for
now, let's take the win.
>> How do you think it shapes up at the
FOMC later this month?
>> Well, difficult to look at a report like
this. We still have not seen
inflationary pressures come through. We
don't have any cracks in the labor
market. Now, our view of the on that of
course is that that's more structural
support than it is a cyclical indicator.
But there's not a lot of data
justification for a cut here. You got to
do some real mental gymnastics in order
to get it, especially because looking
forward the odds are that inflation is
going to rise from this level. So you
either have to see a material
deterioration in the job market or
something underlying growth that takes
away your confidence on this in order to
justify that cut. For us, the first cuts
in December with a risk to later.
>> When you say moderation second half of
the year when it comes to the consumer,
is that because they pulled forward and
they were out hoarding or is it because
of tariff and the impact of trade? So
let's separate some of that distortion
or dislocations from tariffs. That's
going to in include lots of
front-loading activity just like
businesses. There's going to be symmetry
between the two. But this is just
old-fashioned economics. Higher interest
rates, higher prices, higher debt loads.
That's weighing on a huge amount of
Americans. That's going to keep them
from being able to sustainably
accelerate over time. So the path is a
little bit lower. We're not talking
about a collapse in growth where they're
just not talking about a reaceleration.
think a gentle moderation or more of a
maintenance type of spend.
>> You say December for the first Fed rate
cut. That is not a merry Christmas for
this president of the United States.
What do you make of what we saw the past
24 hours?
>> Well, I might say actually, how much
does it matter? Is 25 basis points in
September or December going to change
the American economy? I would argue not
at all. We have significant amounts of
spending. You're running 7% deficit to
GDP. That's going to keep a floor under
growth. No question. We know that the
housing market is leveraged to the long
end of the curve. There's not much Chair
Powell or anybody in that seat can do
about that. These are long-term global
dynamics that are really pushing the US
economy forward or backwards. And so
whether or not you have one or two or
three or zero cuts from now to 2025, I'm
not sure that that's a gamecher for the
US economy.
>> Mike McKe still with us. Mike, later on
this evening, 6:30 p.m. I'm sure you've
seen it. Governor Waller addressing the
economy. Do you think he got additional
fuel this week to present the argument
for lower interest rates?
>> Well, certainly he does with this retail
sales report and the headline numbers
for CPI and PPI uh would give you that
impression. The question is how worried
is he about what's under the hood.
Philadelphia Fed just saw a big rise in
prices paid up to 58.8 from 41.4. We saw
earlier in the week that Empire was up
for prices paid. So there are price
pressures starting to creep into the
economy. Uh now it'll be interesting to
see how Waller frames it because he's
been talking about the idea of this
could be one and done. He expects prices
to rise but not to keep rising. So he
could say that and then he could point
to these retail sales numbers and the
jobless claims numbers and say there's
no reason we couldn't experiment and cut
once.
>> When does the Mike McKe talk come to an
end, Mike?
We come to an end tomorrow. Today we
have Mary Daly from the San Francisco
Fed. We'll get her reaction to all of
these numbers at 12:45 Eastern time and
uh we'll see what she has to say about
uh whether or not July could be
realistic. Remember 12 voters and Chris
Waller and Nikki Bowman are only two of
them.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. Looking
forward to that conversation with Mary
Daly, the San Francisco Fed president
later on this afternoon at 12:45 Eastern
time. Francis, just a final word on this
Federal Reserve. We've had a few people
come on the program today and make the
argument that this political pressure is
going to make it harder for the Fed to
cut, not easier. Do you agree with that?
>> I think the hardest thing that's keeping
the Fed from cutting is going to be
inflation statistics in the second half
of the year, and that is going to trump
any political pressure that comes
through. Maybe I'm old school, but the
end of the day, the data is going to be
pretty clear that this is a tough cut
until at least year end. And that's
going to overwhelm, I think, the Fed's
thinking on this.
>> And base case is inflation keeps firming
from here.
>> We have inflation firming into year end.
And that's a range of factors. It's not
just tariffs. It's support under
services. It's that OEER calculation
that's likely going to rise into year
end. I don't even need tariffs in order
to tell you that inflation is still
going to be too uh too hot for comfort
heading into the end of this year.
>> Francis, appreciate it for good to see
you. Thank you very much for being here.
Francis Donald of RBC on the tension
with the Federal Reserve and the
president. And based on Francis's
forecast, that tension's only going to
build into year end.
>> And it's going to get worse. That's not
going to be a merry Christmas for the
president if Francis is talking about
the fact that we are not going to get a
cut until December. Remember, people are
talking about September. And we are only
right now in July. And we've had reports
that he is considering firing the Fed
chair. And every single day, this is
going to be be maybe more disruptive for
some people or opportunities for others.
>> If you are just joining us, some better
news this morning on the data front. The
economic data looks like this. Upside
surprise on retail sales, the right kind
of downside surprise on jobless claims
with an update on stories elsewhere.
Here's your Bloomberg brief with Lizzie
Burden. Hey Lizzie. Hey John. A recap of
that latest US economic data. Consumer
strength continuing in June with retail
sales coming in well above estimates
rising 0.6% versus expectations of just
a tenth of 1%. Similar positive news as
you say in the labor market with weekly
jobless claims coming in at 221,000 and
marking a fifth straight week of
declines. Elsewhere, Uber is teaming up
with EV maker Lucid and self-driving
startup Muro to launch a robo taxi fleet
in an unidentified major US city by the
end of 2026. Mysterious Uber will
purchase and operate Lucid Gravity SUVs
equipped with Neuros technology. And the
deal is Uber's latest effort to become
the go-to app for robo taxis. And in
sports, the first round of the open
championship is underway at Royal Port
Rush, Northern Ireland. Denmark's Jacob
Scov Olsen and China's Haong Lee are
tied for the early lead at four under.
Xander Schoffley is looking to defend
his title while Scotty Sheoffller and
Rory Mroy enter players numbers one and
two in the world and winners of the two
of the year's first three majors. That
should be my brief, John.
>> Don't have Mrs. Pharaoh knows this, but
that's the weekend set. That's what it
looks like. Okay, Lizzy, thanks for this
morning. Appreciate it. Up next, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby as
travel demand rebounds. Sitting down
with Lisa in just a moment.
[Music]
The opening battle about 46 minutes
away. Going into it, your scores shaping
up as follows. On the S&P positive by a
tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ up by 210 of
1%. One name in focus in the pre-market
for us this morning. United Airlines.
United Airlines saying its outlook is
now more predictable after a first half
marked by flight cancellations, trade,
and geopolitical concerns. That stock is
down by only 0.5%. Lisa joins us now
from Chicago with a special guest.
Morning, Lisa.
>> Good morning, John. Great to be here in
Chicago and thank you so much. I am here
with Scott Kirby, the CEO of United
Airlines after earnings came out and he
really echoed what we heard from Delta,
which was the first reporter, which is
stability, solidness, a sense of
recovery. You said the world is less
uncertain today than it was during the
first 6 months of 2025.
What was the inflection point where you
saw that certainty come into play?
>> You know, uh this year uh lot of
uncertainty in the first half of the
year, macro uncertainty and and that led
to an impact on bookings and demand at
United and across the the whole
industry. Uh but it felt like there was
a turning point at the end of June where
the tax bill passed and the situation in
the Middle East was calmer and tariffs
while not certain yet narrowing the
range and it really felt like people
felt enough confidence or enough lower
level of uncertainty that they kind of
came off the sidelines and were unfrozen
and particularly for business demand. I
mean, you can't stay on the sidelines
forever. And that was enough of a
trigger and it really was like a light
switch flipped at the end of June,
particularly for business demand,
double-digit acceleration in business
demand. Um, as we ended June and that's
continued, you know, through yesterday.
>> We've talked a lot about the K-shaped
recovery and the idea that high-end
consumers have really been driving the
economy. Corporations kind of dropped
off with business travel as you said,
they picked back up. What about the rest
of the travelers, the main cabin? How
much have they rebounded back to where
they would have been had there not been
some of the headline volatility?
>> So if you sort of separate into those
three pieces, business demand dropped
off at the start of the year. That seems
like it's bounced back to what we were
expecting it to be as we moved in into
July. Premium and you know higherend
leisure sort of stayed consistent
throughout. It never really dropped off.
And the biggest impact for the consumer
was in low-end leisure and that's come
back some in July but not as much. I'd
say that's sort of 50% recovered to what
we were expecting at the start of the
year. So, business back to mostly a full
recovery. Uh, and low-end leisure kind
of 50% recover. Premium leisure never
never fell off. We've seen uh sort of
one entrant into the CPI report, the
idea of inflation has been airline
tickets have actually prices have been
coming down and there's this question of
whether discounting is required to bring
some of the main cabin back and whether
that's going to be a persistent trend
that competing on price is going to be
really important. Now how much do you
see that as persisting into the second
half of the year?
>> You know the airline industry is always
a good value and always has has
attractive prices. uh but I think it's
more of a supply demand imbalance that
there are a number of airlines you know
there are two brand loyal airlines in
the United States who are now generating
the bulk of the industry's profits uh
because those customers that care about
quality that care about service that
care about technology um are we're just
better and they're choosing us and um
and you can see it in the data you can
see it in the numbers um for the more
commoditized part of the business um you
know there's simply more seats available
there's been more seats available than
there is demand um But encouragingly
there's a big change coming in mid
August. While we've talked about demand
and I see an inflection in demand,
there's also an inflection coming in
supply as by the time we get to mid
August, there are a lot of seats. Same
thing happened last year. A lot of seats
coming out of the industry, particularly
from the low-end carriers um who've been
struggling. Uh those seats are coming
out. So my guess is that's going to lead
to a firmer pricing environment um as we
move into mid August and beyond.
Actually, we can already see that in our
numbers for for later in the year.
>> Are you expected to take any capacity
out? uh you know we're we continue to
prune um but there's not going to be any
structural changes uh to to our capacity
um and you know we are encouraged by the
environment and in fact just in the last
couple of weeks uh for us at least the
yields have turned positive on domestic
they've been down you know for several
months as we started the year but yields
have now turned positive for forward
bookings at least
>> so why have you not gone with more
bullish potential estimates then for
your forecast given that you sound
incredibly positive and you have seen
this ongoing rebound
>> yeah you know it has been it's been a
good year. I mean, it's actually pretty
remarkable that we've grown earnings and
margins uh for the first half of the
year despite everything that's happened.
But a lot has happened this year. And we
like to have a policy of being
conservative on our guidance because
stuff does happen. Um and we want to be
able to absorb some unexpected events uh
in our guidance. So, we intentionally
build it conservatively. We did that. We
do that all the time. Uh but so really
what happened this time is we've been
able to build that conservativism back.
So, you know, if nothing else happens
this year, which is a big if, uh, and if
demand stays as strong, booking demand
stays as strong as it is right now,
there's probably upside, but we'd rather
be conservative, uh, than than get out
too far out over our skis.
>> One reason why I was really excited to
speak with you is that you have a
real-time view of not only the consumer
and the appetite there, but also
international demand and whether there
has been any damage to the brand
Americana. the idea of foreign travelers
coming to the United States for tourism
etc. You've said that there has been a
drop off in European travelers, how
sustained do you expect that to be? Are
you seeing any permanent shifts in that
international inbound landscape?
>> You know, there has been a drop off in
uh in inbound eur demand. Europe is one,
but it's a single-digit decline. So, and
US point of sale has more than made up
for it and it's 80% of our business. I
don't think it'll be permanent. Um, you
know, the the United States is the
greatest country on earth. Um, it's a
great place for people to come, a great
place for people to visit. Demand is
affected by all kinds of things. We have
fewer students coming to the US right
now. Um, you know, not surprisingly, uh,
that's fewer
>> uh quite a bit fewer. I mean, enough,
you know, it's a small relatively small
percentage of the business, but when
you're talking about 1, two, 3% changes
in demand, you can see it. Um, uh, when
you're talking about small changes, um,
but those, my guess is that we will get
back to normal. Um, and you know,
people's desire to travel, see the
world, um, whether you're an American or
European or a Canadian, um, is strong.
Um, this is a great place to visit. Um,
and my guess is it'll get back to
normal.
>> And if you're a senior and you're
applying to colleges right now in US,
you probably are in pretty good shape.
That's all I can say. There's also a
question about the further uncertainty
and tariffs are almost a certainty at
this point. How do you expect to absorb
them? Are you planning or do you have a
base case for uh whether you'll increase
prices or whether we'll just hit margins
more significantly?
>> You know, for United, we're fortunate
that most of our aircraft come from
Boeing uh so here in the US um and even
the Airbus deliveries we have are mostly
produced here in the United States. So
tariffs don't have as big of a direct
impact on us as they do perhaps on our
competitors. The bigger issue for us is
the impact it has on the macro economy.
And you know, I I feel really good. You
were right earlier. You said we have a
real-time indication of the economy.
We're a very good real-time indicator of
what's going on with the economy. Not
always advanced, but good real time. And
it really does feel like something
changed at the end of the June. The
level of of confidence, at least less
uncertainty. People are moving forward.
Um, and I think on tariffs, there's a
narrower range of outcomes, like
probably not going to be 145% on time. a
narrower range of outcomes and people
have had six months to sort of figure
out how to deal with it and have some
contingency planning. Whatever the
reasons are, it does feel like there's
more certainty
>> with Boeing. Do you expect the
deliveries to be on time or do you
expect there to be more competition with
all the other countries that are making
deals to buy Boeing planes?
>> You know, um that will be an interesting
point of what happens with tariffs. My
guess is aviation ultimately will wind
up excluded. It's the one industry US
exports six times more aviation products
than we import. So, um the trade we have
a big trade surplus on that side. So, my
guess is those will wind up um excluded,
but Boeing, you know, is back on track.
You know, narrow bodies are actually
ahead of schedule uh for us. Wide bodies
are still behind. I think that's less a
Boeing issue. Um probably more an engine
issue and the supply chain for engines.
I think that's a longer term multi-year
uh challenge to get the the widebody
back on track. But Boeing seems to have
turned the corner on production.
>> I just want to finish on New York and
whether New York's turned the corner. I
do know that we could go for an hour
about the delays and some of the uh
drama around that airport. You guys have
a huge presence there. You have made
this partnership with uh with JetBlue
and move to Jet uh to JFK. Do you expect
to expand more in the tri-state area to
try to diversify your presence away from
New York?
>> Well, first I'm really pleased with what
Secretary Tffy and the Department of
Transportation FA have done at Newark.
We've my entire career here at United
have been trying to get Newark on an
equal footing with Lagoria and JFK.
That's essentially putting slot
controls, have the number of flights at
the airport equal to the capacity of the
airport. Um, and we've finally done that
and you can already see the results. In
in June, New York was the most reliable
of the three New York area airports. Um,
it's and the future looks really good.
So, we feel really good about Newark and
it's a crown jewel and we're going to
grow it and you know, it's always going
to be a crown jewel for United, but from
the first day I got here to United, I've
wanted us to get back into JFK. Our goal
is to be the premier flag carrier of the
United States. Um, and we need to be in
JFK uh to do that. So, the JetBlue
partnership is a great way for us to
have a partner who cares, has the same
sort of culture on DNA for customers to
get back, you know, and have a presence
on both sides of the river.
>> Scott Kirby, thank you so much for
taking the time today. That was Scott
Kirby. John, I'm going to send it back
to you uh from the United Headquarters
in Chicago.
>> Hey, Brema, thank you. Looking forward
to having you back in the studio and
hopefully flying United and on time
flights, right? Yeah,
>> that's what we want to see. Bremo back
in a seat tomorrow morning. A bias to
act consumer re-engaging, business
spending recovering. The message from
Scott Kirby there, a big message from
United Airlines.
>> Huge message and they see basically
upside to earnings target and they say
their goal right now is conservative.
Two things I really took away from that.
One, I've never heard Newark and Crown
Jewel in the same sentence. Make Newark
great again. It seems like they are
doubling down. excited to see
potentially some of the issues there
behind them. Narrower range of outcomes
when it comes to tariffs. They really
feel like they are turning a corner when
it comes to the trade story. They say
you've had 6 months, you've had
contingency planning and they even view
what we are seeing right now, which is
the fact that we are still waiting on
tariff rates. They say that right now
they have more certainty.
>> This market has turned a corner. Your
recording market positive by 210 of 1%
on the S&P 500 and very close to
all-time highs. The opening bow about 35
minutes away. Coming up through the week
at 400 p.m. Eastern time, you'll hear
from the president signing another round
of executive orders. After the closing
bow, earnings from Netflix. Friday, you
sentiment. Sneak peek of next week. Fed
chair J. Pal on Tuesday speaking at the
FMC's regulatory conference. On
Wednesday, more results from Tesla and
Alphabet. On Thursday, Intel and
American Airlines. Coming up tomorrow,
here's the lineup. Peter Oppenheimer of
Goldman Sachs, Sarah Malik of New, Jack
Kefrey of JP Morgan Asset Management,
and Sarah House of Wells Fargo from New
York City this morning. Good morning to
you all. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]